ce/sales/associate-documents-playbook-activities.md, before:

---
title: "Associate documents with playbook activities (Dynamics 365 Sales) | MicrosoftDocs"
description: "Associate documents with playbook activities to help your team access accurate and current sales materials or training content to close a deal."
ms.date: 10/26/2021
ms.topic: article
author: lavanyakr01
ms.author: lavanyakr
ms.custom: 
  - "dyn365-sales"
searchScope: 
  - D365-App-msdynce_saleshub
  - D365-Entity-msdyn_playbookinstance
  - D365-Entity-msdyn_playbookactivity
  - D365-Entity-msdyn_playbookcategory
  - D365-UI-*
  - Customer Engagement
  - Dynamics 365
  - Sales
---
# Associate documents with playbook activities 

Ensure sales reps always have the latest sales and training materials to close a deal by associating documents with playbook activities that you add to a playbook template.
For example, create a playbook template that sales reps can follow when the decision maker they are working with leaves the organization. While adding activities to this template, you can also attach documents that help the sales rep bring the new decision maker up to speed. 

## License and role requirements
| Requirement type | You must have |
|-----------------------|---------|
| **License** | Dynamics 365 Sales Premium or Dynamics 365 Sales Enterprise  <br>More information: [Dynamics 365 Sales pricing](https://dynamics.microsoft.com/sales/pricing/) |
| **Security roles** | System Administrator or Playbook Manager <br> More information: [Predefined security roles for Sales](security-roles-for-sales.md)|


## Prerequisites

So that you can add documents, make sure that document management for the playbook activity entity is enabled. Document Management must also be enabled for playbook activity and all the entities to which documents must be copied, that is, task, appointment, and phone call. [!INCLUDE[proc-more-information](../includes/proc-more-information.md)] [Enable SharePoint document management for specific entities](/power-platform/admin/enable-sharepoint-document-management-specific-entities), [Set up SharePoint integration](/power-platform/admin/set-up-sharepoint-integration).

## Add documents 

1.	In the **Playbook activities** section of the playbook template, open the playbook activity to which you want to associate a document.

2.	In the activity form, select the **Related** tab, and then select **Documents**.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]  
    > ![Documents option on the Related tab.](media/documents-option-on-related-tab.png "Documents option on the Related tab")

    The **Documents** list opens.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]  
    > ![Documents tab on the Playbook activity form.](media/documents-tab-on-playbook-activity-form.png "Documents tab on the Playbook activity form")

3.	Select **Upload** to add documents that a sales rep might need while working on this playbook activity. The documents are stored on the configured SharePoint site. For more information about working with documents, see [Manage your SharePoint documents](/power-platform/admin/manage-documents-using-sharepoint).


> [!NOTE]
>   -	The document operations you can perform, such as creating a new document or uploading, checking out, editing, or deleting a document, depend on the permissions assigned to you.  
>   - If a system administrator disables document management on a playbook activity for which it was earlier enabled, and documents were associated, the documents won’t be available to the associated activities when a playbook is launched for an entity such as an opportunity or lead.
>   - By default, the playbook activity entity is enabled for customization because that's a prerequisite for enabling SharePoint integration. However, we don't support any customizations to this entity.

[!INCLUDE [cant-find-option](../includes/cant-find-option.md)]

### See also
[Manage playbook templates](manage-playbook-templates.md)  
[Enforce best practices with playbooks](enforce-best-practices-playbooks.md)  


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

Category: New-Content Workitem: https://dev.azure.com/dynamicscrm/OneCRM/_workitems/edit/3350349 Description: Playbook deprecation banner

ce/sales/associate-documents-playbook-activities.md, after:

---
title: "Associate documents with playbook activities (Dynamics 365 Sales) | MicrosoftDocs"
description: "Associate documents with playbook activities to help your team access accurate and current sales materials or training content to close a deal."
ms.date: 10/26/2021
ms.topic: article
author: lavanyakr01
ms.author: lavanyakr
ms.custom: 
  - "dyn365-sales"
searchScope: 
  - D365-App-msdynce_saleshub
  - D365-Entity-msdyn_playbookinstance
  - D365-Entity-msdyn_playbookactivity
  - D365-Entity-msdyn_playbookcategory
  - D365-UI-*
  - Customer Engagement
  - Dynamics 365
  - Sales
---
# Associate documents with playbook activities 

> [!NOTE]
> Starting July 7, 2023, playbooks will be discontinued region-wise. Move your playbook templates to sequences to create scheduled and conditional workflows. [Learn more](create-manage-sequences.md)  

Ensure sales reps always have the latest sales and training materials to close a deal by associating documents with playbook activities that you add to a playbook template.
For example, create a playbook template that sales reps can follow when the decision maker they are working with leaves the organization. While adding activities to this template, you can also attach documents that help the sales rep bring the new decision maker up to speed. 

## License and role requirements
| Requirement type | You must have |
|-----------------------|---------|
| **License** | Dynamics 365 Sales Premium or Dynamics 365 Sales Enterprise  <br>More information: [Dynamics 365 Sales pricing](https://dynamics.microsoft.com/sales/pricing/) |
| **Security roles** | System Administrator or Playbook Manager <br> More information: [Predefined security roles for Sales](security-roles-for-sales.md)|


## Prerequisites

So that you can add documents, make sure that document management for the playbook activity entity is enabled. Document Management must also be enabled for playbook activity and all the entities to which documents must be copied, that is, task, appointment, and phone call. [!INCLUDE[proc-more-information](../includes/proc-more-information.md)] [Enable SharePoint document management for specific entities](/power-platform/admin/enable-sharepoint-document-management-specific-entities), [Set up SharePoint integration](/power-platform/admin/set-up-sharepoint-integration).

## Add documents 

1.	In the **Playbook activities** section of the playbook template, open the playbook activity to which you want to associate a document.

2.	In the activity form, select the **Related** tab, and then select **Documents**.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]  
    > ![Documents option on the Related tab.](media/documents-option-on-related-tab.png "Documents option on the Related tab")

    The **Documents** list opens.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]  
    > ![Documents tab on the Playbook activity form.](media/documents-tab-on-playbook-activity-form.png "Documents tab on the Playbook activity form")

3.	Select **Upload** to add documents that a sales rep might need while working on this playbook activity. The documents are stored on the configured SharePoint site. For more information about working with documents, see [Manage your SharePoint documents](/power-platform/admin/manage-documents-using-sharepoint).


> [!NOTE]
>   -	The document operations you can perform, such as creating a new document or uploading, checking out, editing, or deleting a document, depend on the permissions assigned to you.  
>   - If a system administrator disables document management on a playbook activity for which it was earlier enabled, and documents were associated, the documents won’t be available to the associated activities when a playbook is launched for an entity such as an opportunity or lead.
>   - By default, the playbook activity entity is enabled for customization because that's a prerequisite for enabling SharePoint integration. However, we don't support any customizations to this entity.

[!INCLUDE [cant-find-option](../includes/cant-find-option.md)]

### See also
[Manage playbook templates](manage-playbook-templates.md)  
[Enforce best practices with playbooks](enforce-best-practices-playbooks.md)  


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
