ce/sales/define-playbook-categories.md, before:

---
title: "Define playbook categories | MicrosoftDocs"
description: "Create playbook categories to classify playbooks based on the audience, objective, or any other criteria."
ms.date: 10/25/2021
ms.topic: article
author: lavanyakr01
ms.author: lavanyakr
ms.custom: 
  - "dyn365-sales"
searchScope: 
  - D365-App-msdynce_saleshub
  - D365-Entity-msdyn_playbookactivity
  - D365-Entity-msdyn_playbooktemplate
  - D365-UI-*
  - Dynamics 365
  - Sales
  - Customer Engagement
---
# Define playbook categories 

You can create categories to classify playbooks. For example, categories could be contract renewals or decision maker departures.

## License and role requirements
| Requirement type | You must have |
|-----------------------|---------|
| **License** | Dynamics 365 Sales Premium or Dynamics 365 Sales Enterprise  <br>More information: [Dynamics 365 Sales pricing](https://dynamics.microsoft.com/sales/pricing/) |
| **Security roles** | System Administrator or Playbook Manager <br> More information: [Predefined security roles for Sales](security-roles-for-sales.md)|



## Create playbook categories

1.  In the site map, select the Change area icon ![Icon to change the work area.](media/change-area-icon.png "Icon to change the work area"), and then select **App Settings**. 

3.  Select **Playbook categories**.

4.  On the command bar, select **New**.

5.  Enter the name, and select **Save**.

[!INCLUDE [cant-find-option](../includes/cant-find-option.md)]

### See also
[Enforce best practices with playbooks](enforce-best-practices-playbooks.md)  
[Manage playbook templates](manage-playbook-templates.md) 


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

Category: New-Content Workitem: https://dev.azure.com/dynamicscrm/OneCRM/_workitems/edit/3350349 Description: Playbook deprecation banner

ce/sales/define-playbook-categories.md, after:

---
title: "Define playbook categories | MicrosoftDocs"
description: "Create playbook categories to classify playbooks based on the audience, objective, or any other criteria."
ms.date: 10/25/2021
ms.topic: article
author: lavanyakr01
ms.author: lavanyakr
ms.custom: 
  - "dyn365-sales"
searchScope: 
  - D365-App-msdynce_saleshub
  - D365-Entity-msdyn_playbookactivity
  - D365-Entity-msdyn_playbooktemplate
  - D365-UI-*
  - Dynamics 365
  - Sales
  - Customer Engagement
---
# Define playbook categories 

> [!NOTE]
> Starting July 7, 2023, playbooks will be discontinued region-wise. Move your playbook templates to sequences to create scheduled and conditional workflows. [Learn more](create-manage-sequences.md)  

You can create categories to classify playbooks. For example, categories could be contract renewals or decision maker departures.

## License and role requirements
| Requirement type | You must have |
|-----------------------|---------|
| **License** | Dynamics 365 Sales Premium or Dynamics 365 Sales Enterprise  <br>More information: [Dynamics 365 Sales pricing](https://dynamics.microsoft.com/sales/pricing/) |
| **Security roles** | System Administrator or Playbook Manager <br> More information: [Predefined security roles for Sales](security-roles-for-sales.md)|



## Create playbook categories

1.  In the site map, select the Change area icon ![Icon to change the work area.](media/change-area-icon.png "Icon to change the work area"), and then select **App Settings**. 

3.  Select **Playbook categories**.

4.  On the command bar, select **New**.

5.  Enter the name, and select **Save**.

[!INCLUDE [cant-find-option](../includes/cant-find-option.md)]

### See also
[Enforce best practices with playbooks](enforce-best-practices-playbooks.md)  
[Manage playbook templates](manage-playbook-templates.md) 


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
