ce/sales/dynamics365-sales-insights-app.md, before:

---
title: Conversation intelligence overview
description: Improve seller coaching and sales potential with AI-driven insights readily available for conversation intelligence.
ms.date: 10/31/2022
ms.topic: overview
ms.assetid: 17cac16d-2a37-4a19-9cfe-2d4355a6f044
author: lavanyakr01
ms.author: lavanyakr
---

# Conversation intelligence overview

Conversation intelligence uses analytics and data science to gather data from sellers' call recordings and Dynamics 365 Sales. Conversation intelligence analyzes the data to provide you with the information and insights to intelligently manage your sales team and proactively coach sellers. To achieve this, conversation intelligence displays relevant key performance indicators (KPIs) and intelligent call data KPIs by team, seller, and call.

## License and role requirements

| Requirement type | You must have |
|-----------------------|---------|
| **License** | Dynamics 365 Sales Premium or Dynamics 365 Sales Enterprise <br>More information: [Dynamics 365 Sales pricing](https://dynamics.microsoft.com/sales/pricing/) |
| **Security roles** | Any primary sales role, such as salesperson or sales manager<br>  More information: [Primary sales roles](security-roles-for-sales.md#primary-sales-roles)|


## How can I use conversation intelligence?

>[!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/videoplayer/embed/RE4Ub4r]

>[!IMPORTANT]
>This feature is intended to help sales managers or supervisors enhance their team's performance. This feature isn't intended for use in making&mdash;and shouldn't be used to make&mdash;decisions that affect the employment of an employee or group of employees, including compensation, rewards, seniority, or other rights or entitlements. Customers are solely responsible for using Dynamics 365, this feature, and any associated feature or service in compliance with all applicable laws, including laws relating to accessing individual employee analytics and monitoring, recording, and storing communications with end users. This also includes adequately notifying end users that their communications with sales persons may be monitored, recorded, or stored and, as required by applicable laws, obtaining consent from end users before using the feature with them. Customers are also encouraged to have a mechanism in place to inform their sales persons that their communications with end users may be monitored, recorded, or stored.

Conversation intelligence is designed to help sales managers and sellers in their day-to-day job, providing the tools they need to track their sales performance in calls with leads and customers.

**As a sales manager, you can:**  

> [!NOTE]
> If you are a sales manager, verify that a proper manager hierarchy is defined for you, and that sellers or individuals are added to it. To learn more, see [Set up manager and position hierarchies](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/admin/hierarchy-security#set-up-manager-and-position-hierarchies).

-	Understand what customers are talking about and design sales strategies and training, with business insights on trending tracked keywords, brands, competitors, and more. To learn more, see [View home page](dynamics365-sales-insights-app-home-page.md).  

- View and compare what's happening in sales calls and get insights into best practices by learning more about the behaviors of your top sellers. To learn more, see [View team information](conversation-intelligence-team-overview.md).  
- View your team's performance, with insights, customer sentiment, and conversational style. To learn more, see [View team information](conversation-intelligence-team-overview.md).  
- View and understand each individual seller's conversation style, customer sentiment, insights, and call history. To learn more, see [View sales rep information](conversation-intelligence-seller-details.md).  
- View insights on the status of your current sales period such as the sum of actual revenue, total estimated revenues, total deals won, and the average revenue generated. To learn more, see [View overall sales and seller insights](dynamics365-sales-insights-app-home-page.md).   
- Listen to calls, read transcripts, see possible action items, view signals that occurred during the call (keywords, competitors, prices, and more), and business-critical insights. To learn more, see [View and understand call summary](../sales/view-and-understand-call-summary.md).  
- Translate non-English call transcript to English. To learn more, see [View and understand call summary](../sales/view-and-understand-call-summary.md).   

**As a seller, you can:**  

- View your conversation insights, customer sentiment, conversations style, sales pipeline, and call history. To learn more, see [View sales rep information](conversation-intelligence-seller-details.md).  

- Listen to calls, read transcripts, see possible action items, view signals that occurred during the call (keywords, competitors, prices, and more), and business-critical insights. To learn more, see [View and understand call summary](../sales/view-and-understand-call-summary.md).  

- Translate non-English call transcript to English. To learn more, see [View and understand call summary](../sales/view-and-understand-call-summary.md).


**As an administrator, you can:**  

- Configure tracked keywords and competitors that your managers want to track for their teams' calls with customers. To learn more, see [Configure keywords and competitors to track](configure-keywords-competitors.md).  
    > [!NOTE]
    > Sales managers can also define tracked keywords and competitors. These tracked keywords and competitors apply only to their team.  

- Configure how long you want to retain a team's or individual seller's data from your organization. To learn more, see [Data retention and deletion through Privacy](data-retention-deletion-policy.md).  
- Manage environments and configure call data. To learn more, see [Connect conversation intelligence to an environment](connect-dynamics365-sales-environment.md) and [Configure conversation intelligence to connect call data](configure-conversation-intelligence-call-data.md).  
- Monitor call and insight processing data. To learn more, see [Monitor call and insight processing](../sales/monitor-call-insight-processing.md).   
-	Configure the levels of hierarchy for which sales managers can view the call data. To learn more, see [Monitor call and insight processing](../sales/monitor-call-insight-processing.md).  


## What languages are supported? 

Currently, conversation intelligence supports the following languages: 

| Language | Code |
|----------|------|
| Arabic | ar_BH |
| Chinese simplified | zh_CN |
| Danish | da_DK |
| Dutch | nl_NL |
| English | en_US and en_GB |
| Finnish | fi_FI |
| French | fr_FR and fr_CA |
| German | de_DE |
| Hebrew | he_IL |
| Italian | it_IT |
| Japanese | ja_JP |
| Norwegian | nb_NO|
| Portuguese | pt_PT and pt_BR |
| Spanish | es_ES and es_MX |
| Swedish | sv_SE |


## How to access conversation intelligence

Conversation intelligence for your Teams calls is available from the following apps:

- [Sales Hub app](view-and-understand-call-summary-sales-app.md)
- [Standalone conversation intelligence app](dynamics365-sales-insights-app-home-page.md)


### See also

[Administer conversation intelligence](intro-admin-guide-sales-insights.md#administer-conversation-intelligence)   

[View overall sales and seller insights](dynamics365-sales-insights-app-home-page.md)  
[Conversation Intelligence FAQs](faqs-sales-insights.md#conversation-intelligence)


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

Created a new hub page with topic headings

ce/sales/dynamics365-sales-insights-app.md, after:

---
title: Coach sellers with conversation intelligence
description: Improve seller coaching and sales potential with AI-driven insights readily available for conversation intelligence.
ms.date: 10/31/2022
ms.topic: overview
ms.assetid: 17cac16d-2a37-4a19-9cfe-2d4355a6f044
author: lavanyakr01
ms.author: lavanyakr
---

# Coach sellers with conversation intelligence

Conversation intelligence uses analytics and data science to gather data from sellers' call recordings and Dynamics 365 Sales. Conversation intelligence analyzes the data to provide you with the information and insights to intelligently manage your sales team and proactively coach sellers. To achieve this, conversation intelligence displays relevant key performance indicators (KPIs) and intelligent call data KPIs by team, seller, and call.

## License and role requirements

| Requirement type | You must have |
|-----------------------|---------|
| **License** | Dynamics 365 Sales Premium or Dynamics 365 Sales Enterprise <br>More information: [Dynamics 365 Sales pricing](https://dynamics.microsoft.com/sales/pricing/) |
| **Security roles** | Any primary sales role, such as salesperson or sales manager<br>  More information: [Primary sales roles](security-roles-for-sales.md#primary-sales-roles)|


## How can I use conversation intelligence?

>[!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/videoplayer/embed/RE4Ub4r]

>[!IMPORTANT]
>This feature is intended to help sales managers or supervisors enhance their team's performance. This feature isn't intended for use in making&mdash;and shouldn't be used to make&mdash;decisions that affect the employment of an employee or group of employees, including compensation, rewards, seniority, or other rights or entitlements. Customers are solely responsible for using Dynamics 365, this feature, and any associated feature or service in compliance with all applicable laws, including laws relating to accessing individual employee analytics and monitoring, recording, and storing communications with end users. This also includes adequately notifying end users that their communications with sales persons may be monitored, recorded, or stored and, as required by applicable laws, obtaining consent from end users before using the feature with them. Customers are also encouraged to have a mechanism in place to inform their sales persons that their communications with end users may be monitored, recorded, or stored.

Conversation intelligence is designed to help sales managers and sellers in their day-to-day job, providing the tools they need to track their sales performance in calls with leads and customers.

**As a sales manager, you can:**  

> [!NOTE]
> If you are a sales manager, verify that a proper manager hierarchy is defined for you, and that sellers or individuals are added to it. To learn more, see [Set up manager and position hierarchies](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/admin/hierarchy-security#set-up-manager-and-position-hierarchies).

-	Understand what customers are talking about and design sales strategies and training, with business insights on trending tracked keywords, brands, competitors, and more. To learn more, see [View home page](dynamics365-sales-insights-app-home-page.md).  

- View and compare what's happening in sales calls and get insights into best practices by learning more about the behaviors of your top sellers. To learn more, see [View team information](conversation-intelligence-team-overview.md).  
- View your team's performance, with insights, customer sentiment, and conversational style. To learn more, see [View team information](conversation-intelligence-team-overview.md).  
- View and understand each individual seller's conversation style, customer sentiment, insights, and call history. To learn more, see [View sales rep information](conversation-intelligence-seller-details.md).  
- View insights on the status of your current sales period such as the sum of actual revenue, total estimated revenues, total deals won, and the average revenue generated. To learn more, see [View overall sales and seller insights](dynamics365-sales-insights-app-home-page.md).   
- Listen to calls, read transcripts, see possible action items, view signals that occurred during the call (keywords, competitors, prices, and more), and business-critical insights. To learn more, see [View and understand call summary](../sales/view-and-understand-call-summary.md).  
- Translate non-English call transcript to English. To learn more, see [View and understand call summary](../sales/view-and-understand-call-summary.md).   

**As a seller, you can:**  

- View your conversation insights, customer sentiment, conversations style, sales pipeline, and call history. To learn more, see [View sales rep information](conversation-intelligence-seller-details.md).  

- Listen to calls, read transcripts, see possible action items, view signals that occurred during the call (keywords, competitors, prices, and more), and business-critical insights. To learn more, see [View and understand call summary](../sales/view-and-understand-call-summary.md).  

- Translate non-English call transcript to English. To learn more, see [View and understand call summary](../sales/view-and-understand-call-summary.md).


**As an administrator, you can:**  

- Configure tracked keywords and competitors that your managers want to track for their teams' calls with customers. To learn more, see [Configure keywords and competitors to track](configure-keywords-competitors.md).  
    > [!NOTE]
    > Sales managers can also define tracked keywords and competitors. These tracked keywords and competitors apply only to their team.  

- Configure how long you want to retain a team's or individual seller's data from your organization. To learn more, see [Data retention and deletion through Privacy](data-retention-deletion-policy.md).  
- Manage environments and configure call data. To learn more, see [Connect conversation intelligence to an environment](connect-dynamics365-sales-environment.md) and [Configure conversation intelligence to connect call data](configure-conversation-intelligence-call-data.md).  
- Monitor call and insight processing data. To learn more, see [Monitor call and insight processing](../sales/monitor-call-insight-processing.md).   
-	Configure the levels of hierarchy for which sales managers can view the call data. To learn more, see [Monitor call and insight processing](../sales/monitor-call-insight-processing.md).  


## What languages are supported? 

Currently, conversation intelligence supports the following languages: 

| Language | Code |
|----------|------|
| Arabic | ar_BH |
| Chinese simplified | zh_CN |
| Danish | da_DK |
| Dutch | nl_NL |
| English | en_US and en_GB |
| Finnish | fi_FI |
| French | fr_FR and fr_CA |
| German | de_DE |
| Hebrew | he_IL |
| Italian | it_IT |
| Japanese | ja_JP |
| Norwegian | nb_NO|
| Portuguese | pt_PT and pt_BR |
| Spanish | es_ES and es_MX |
| Swedish | sv_SE |


## How to access conversation intelligence

Conversation intelligence for your Teams calls is available from the following apps:

- [Sales Hub app](view-and-understand-call-summary-sales-app.md)
- [Standalone conversation intelligence app](dynamics365-sales-insights-app-home-page.md)


### See also

[Administer conversation intelligence](intro-admin-guide-sales-insights.md#administer-conversation-intelligence)   

[View overall sales and seller insights](dynamics365-sales-insights-app-home-page.md)  
[Conversation Intelligence FAQs](faqs-sales-insights.md#conversation-intelligence)


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
