ce/sales/lock-unlock-price-order-invoice.md, before:

---
title: "Lock or unlock the price for an order or invoice in Dynamics 365 Sales | MicrosoftDocs"
description: "Define whether the prices on orders and invoices in Dynamics 365 Sales will be locked."
ms.date: 10/25/2021
ms.topic: article
author: lavanyakr01
ms.author: lavanyakr
searchScope: 
  - D365-App-msdynce_saleshub
  - D365-App-msdynce_salespro
  - D365-Entity-salesorder
  - D365-Entity-pricelevel
  - D365-UI-*
  - Dynamics 365
  - Sales
  - Customer Engagement
---
# Lock or unlock the price for an order or invoice (Sales Hub) 

To determine whether your order or invoice is using Prices Locked, see the **Prices Locked** field on Order or Invoice form. If the **Prices Locked** field is set to **No**, **Use Current Pricing** is enabled. This field is read-only. 

## License and role requirements
| Requirement type | You must have |  
|-----------------------|---------|
| **License** | Dynamics 365 Sales Premium, Dynamics 365 Sales Enterprise, or Dynamics 365 Sales Professional <br>More information: [Dynamics 365 Sales pricing](https://dynamics.microsoft.com/sales/pricing/) |
| **Security roles** | Any primary sales role, such as salesperson or sales manager<br>  More information: [Primary sales roles](security-roles-for-sales.md#primary-sales-roles)|


## Lock prices or use current pricing

1. In the site map, select **Orders** or **Invoices**.

2. Open the order or invoice you want.

3. To lock prices, on the command bar, select the More Commands icon ![More Commands icon.](media/more-commands-icon.png "More Commands icon"), and then select **Lock Pricing**.
 
     -OR-
    
    To enable current pricing, on the command bar, select the More Commands icon ![More Commands icon.](media/more-commands-icon.png "More Commands icon"), and then select **Use Current Pricing**.

[!INCLUDE [cant-find-option](../includes/cant-find-option.md)]

### See also

[Create or edit orders](create-edit-order-sales.md)  
[Create or edit invoices](create-edit-invoice-sales.md)


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

Category: Content-improvement Workitem: https://dynamicscrm.visualstudio.com/OneCRM/_workitems/edit/3509744 Description: PQOI updates  - Lock pricing

ce/sales/lock-unlock-price-order-invoice.md, after:

---
title: Lock or unlock the price for an order or invoice 
description: Define whether the prices on orders and invoices in Dynamics 365 Sales will be locked.
ms.date: 07/26/2023
author: lavanyakr01
ms.author: lavanyakr
ms.topic: how-to 
ms.custom: bap-template 
searchScope: 
  - D365-App-msdynce_saleshub
  - D365-App-msdynce_salespro
  - D365-Entity-salesorder
  - D365-Entity-pricelevel
  - D365-UI-*
  - Dynamics 365
  - Sales
  - Customer Engagement
---
# Lock or unlock the price for an order or invoice (Sales Hub) 

After you've finalized an order or invoice for a specific price, you can lock the price to prevent it from being updated when the price list is updated. Conversely, you can enable current pricing to update the price on the order or invoice when the price list is updated.

## License and role requirements

| Requirement type | You must have |  
|-----------------------|---------|
| **License** | Dynamics 365 Sales Premium, Dynamics 365 Sales Enterprise, or Dynamics 365 Sales Professional <br>More information: [Dynamics 365 Sales pricing](https://dynamics.microsoft.com/sales/pricing/) |
| **Security roles** | Any primary sales role, such as salesperson or sales manager<br>  More information: [Primary sales roles](security-roles-for-sales.md#primary-sales-roles)|


## Lock prices or use current pricing

1. In the site map, select **Orders** or **Invoices**.

2. Open the order or invoice you want to edit.

3. To lock prices, on the command bar, select the More Commands icon ![More Commands icon.](media/more-commands-icon.png "More Commands icon"), and then select **Lock Pricing**.
    
    When you lock the price, the following happens:

        - The **Prices Locked** field on the order or invoice is set to **Yes**.

        - The **Price Per Unit** field is locked for all the products in the order or invoice and becomes editable.
        - Though you can change the price list of the order or invoice, the prices of the products are not updated based on the new price list.
 
4. To unlock prices and use current pricing, on the command bar, select the More Commands icon ![More Commands icon.](media/more-commands-icon.png "More Commands icon"), and then select **Use Current Pricing**.

    When you use current pricing, the following happens:
    - The **Prices Locked** field on the order or invoice is set to **No**.
    - The **Price Per Unit** field is unlocked for all the products in the order or invoice. You can choose to use the default price or override the price.
    - The prices of the products are updated based on the price list of the order or invoice. If you'd overridden the price of any product, the overridden price is retained.





[!INCLUDE [cant-find-option](../includes/cant-find-option.md)]

### See also

[Create or edit orders](create-edit-order-sales.md)  
[Create or edit invoices](create-edit-invoice-sales.md)


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
