ce/sales/mark-playbook-completed.md, before:

---
title: "Mark a playbook as completed (Dynamics 365 Sales) | MicrosoftDocs"
description: "Close the playbook as completed to define if the playbook was successful or not."
ms.date: 10/26/2021
ms.topic: article
author: lavanyakr01
ms.author: lavanyakr
ms.custom: 
  - "dyn365-sales"
searchScope: 
  - D365-App-msdynce_saleshub
  - D365-Entity-msdyn_playbookinstance
  - D365-Entity-msdyn_playbookactivity
  - D365-Entity-msdyn_playbookactivityattribute
  - D365-UI-*
  - Dynamics 365
  - Sales
  - Customer Engagement
---
# Mark a playbook as completed 

When you complete all the activities created for a playbook, you must mark the playbook as completed. This helps you to know if the playbook was successful or not.

## License and role requirements
| Requirement type | You must have |
|-----------------------|---------|
| **License** | Dynamics 365 Sales Premium or Dynamics 365 Sales Enterprise  <br>More information: [Dynamics 365 Sales pricing](https://dynamics.microsoft.com/sales/pricing/) |
| **Security roles** | Playbook User or Playbook Manager <br>  More information: [Predefined security roles for Sales](security-roles-for-sales.md)|


## Complete a playbook

1.  To mark a playbook as completed, go to the record you launched the playbook from (calling record).

2.  Select the **Related** tab, and then select **Playbooks**.

3. Open the playbook record.

4.  In the playbook record, on the command bar, select **Complete as**, and then select one of the following results:

    - Successful

    - Not Successful

    - Partially Successful

    - Not Required

    > [!NOTE]
    > A system administrator or customizer can add custom values to this field.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![complete as button on playbook record.](media/complete-playbook-as.png "Complete as button on playbook record")

[!INCLUDE [cant-find-option](../includes/cant-find-option.md)]

### See also

[Launch a playbook to carry out activities consistently](launch-playbook.md)  
[Track playbook activities](track-playbook-activities.md)


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

Category: New-Content Workitem: https://dev.azure.com/dynamicscrm/OneCRM/_workitems/edit/3350349 Description: Playbook deprecation banner

ce/sales/mark-playbook-completed.md, after:

---
title: "Mark a playbook as completed (Dynamics 365 Sales) | MicrosoftDocs"
description: "Close the playbook as completed to define if the playbook was successful or not."
ms.date: 10/26/2021
ms.topic: article
author: lavanyakr01
ms.author: lavanyakr
ms.custom: 
  - "dyn365-sales"
searchScope: 
  - D365-App-msdynce_saleshub
  - D365-Entity-msdyn_playbookinstance
  - D365-Entity-msdyn_playbookactivity
  - D365-Entity-msdyn_playbookactivityattribute
  - D365-UI-*
  - Dynamics 365
  - Sales
  - Customer Engagement
---
# Mark a playbook as completed 

> [!NOTE]
> Starting July 7, 2023, playbooks will be discontinued region-wise. Move your playbook templates to sequences to create scheduled and conditional workflows. [Learn more](create-manage-sequences.md)  

When you complete all the activities created for a playbook, you must mark the playbook as completed. This helps you to know if the playbook was successful or not.

## License and role requirements
| Requirement type | You must have |
|-----------------------|---------|
| **License** | Dynamics 365 Sales Premium or Dynamics 365 Sales Enterprise  <br>More information: [Dynamics 365 Sales pricing](https://dynamics.microsoft.com/sales/pricing/) |
| **Security roles** | Playbook User or Playbook Manager <br>  More information: [Predefined security roles for Sales](security-roles-for-sales.md)|


## Complete a playbook

1.  To mark a playbook as completed, go to the record you launched the playbook from (calling record).

2.  Select the **Related** tab, and then select **Playbooks**.

3. Open the playbook record.

4.  In the playbook record, on the command bar, select **Complete as**, and then select one of the following results:

    - Successful

    - Not Successful

    - Partially Successful

    - Not Required

    > [!NOTE]
    > A system administrator or customizer can add custom values to this field.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![complete as button on playbook record.](media/complete-playbook-as.png "Complete as button on playbook record")

[!INCLUDE [cant-find-option](../includes/cant-find-option.md)]

### See also

[Launch a playbook to carry out activities consistently](launch-playbook.md)  
[Track playbook activities](track-playbook-activities.md)


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
