ce/sales/opportunity-pipeline-view-for-admins.md, before:

---
title: Configure the opportunity pipeline view
description: Learn how to configure the opportunity pipeline view, formerly known as deal manager, to help sellers visualize their pipeline and manage opportunities better.
author: lavanyakr01
ms.author: lavanyakr
ms.reviewer: shujoshi
ms.topic: how-to 
ms.date: 05/11/2023
ms.custom: bap-template 
---

# Configure the opportunity pipeline view

The opportunity pipeline view (formerly known as deal manager) helps your sellers visualize, prioritize, and manage the opportunities in their pipeline. More information: [Use the opportunity pipeline view](use-opportunity-pipeline-view.md)

If you previously configured the deal manager workspace, learn about the [differences between the opportunity pipeline view and the deal manager workspace](faq-sales.yml#are-there-any-differences-between-the-opportunity-pipeline-view-and-the-deal-manager-workspace).

## License and role requirements

| Requirement type | You must have |  
|-----------------------|---------|
| **License** | Dynamics 365 Sales Premium or Dynamics 365 Sales Enterprise<br>More information: [Dynamics 365 Sales pricing](https://dynamics.microsoft.com/sales/pricing/) |
| **Security roles** | System Administrator<br> More information: [Predefined security roles for Sales](security-roles-for-sales.md) |

## Set the pipeline view as the default opportunities view

The **Read-only Grid view** is the default view for opportunities. You can set the **Opportunities pipeline view** as the default instead, so sellers don't have to switch to it each time they view their opportunities.  

1. In the Sales Hub navigation panel, select **Settings** > **Advanced Settings**.
1. In the **Settings** menu, select **Customizations** > **Customize the system**.
1. From the Power Apps Default Solution page, select **Entities** > **Opportunity**.
1. Select the **Controls** tab, and then select **Pipeline view** for web, phone, and tablet.

    If you don't see **Pipeline view** in the **Control** list, select **Add Control**, then select **Pipeline view**, and then select **Add**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/pipeline-set-as-default.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Controls tab with the Pipeline view set as the default for web, phone, and tablet." lightbox="media/pipeline-set-as-default.png":::

1. Save the changes and select **Publish**.
1. From the Sales Hub sitemap, select **Opportunities** to verify that the pipeline view is set as the default view.

    :::image type="content" source="media/deal-manager-overview-v1-small.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the opportunity pipeline view." lightbox="media/deal-manager-overview-v1.png":::

## Customize charts

The charts in the pipeline view help sellers visualize their pipeline. You can customize elements of the bubble chart and the funnel chart to change the information that sellers see.  

### Customize the bubble chart

1. In the Sales Hub navigation panel, select **App Settings**.
1. Under **General Settings**, select **Opportunity pipeline view**.
1. In the **Manage charts** section, edit **Deal tracker**.
1. Customize the following elements:
    - **Horizontal (x) axis**  
      Select any field of type `DateTime`. For example, you can plot the chart based on the delivered date instead of the closed date.  
    - **Vertical (y) axis**  
      Select any numerical field.
    - **Segment by**  
        Select what the color codes signify. For example, select **Pipeline Phase** to color-code the bubbles based on which phase an opportunity is in.
    - **Size**  
        Select a numerical field to indicate the size of the bubble.
    - **Sort legend**  
        Select how to sort the chart legend.
    - **Tooltips**  
        Select the details that you want users to see displayed as tooltips when they hover over a bubble.  

1. Save the changes and select **Publish**.
1. [Open the opportunity pipeline view](use-opportunity-pipeline-view.md#open-the-opportunity-pipeline-view) to verify the changes.

### Customize the funnel chart

1. In the Sales Hub navigation panel, select **App Settings**.
1. Under **General Settings**, select **Opportunity pipeline view**.
1. In the **Manage charts** section, edit **Sales funnel**.

    The following screenshot illustrates the parts of the funnel chart that you can customize:

    :::image type="content" source="media/funnel-chart-customization.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the funnel chart and its elements that can be customized." lightbox="media/funnel-chart-customization.png":::

1. Customize the following elements:
    - **Segment by**  
      Select the field for segmenting the funnel chart. **Default:** Pipeline phase  
    - **Values**  
      Select the field for sizing the bars in the funnel. **Default:** Est. revenue  
    - **Aggregation**  
        Select the aggregate function to use for the **Values** field. This field determines the height of the bar. The aggregate value is displayed when you hover over a segment in the funnel chart.
    - **Sort legend**  
        Specify how to sort the segments.

1. Save the changes and select **Publish**.
1. [Open the opportunity pipeline view](use-opportunity-pipeline-view.md#open-the-opportunity-pipeline-view) to verify the changes.

## Customize the editable grid

The grid in the opportunity pipeline view is an instance of the Power Apps editable grid control. The grid can be both customized and personalized. As an administrator, you can [customize the grid](/power-apps/developer/component-framework/customize-editable-grid-control) for the entire sales organization. Sellers can [personalize their view](personalize-pipeline-view.md#what-can-you-personalize) to include the columns and filters they want to see.  

> [!NOTE]
> If you customized the editable grid in the deal manager using JavaScript, you need to redo those customizations in the pipeline view.

[!INCLUDE [cant-find-option](../includes/cant-find-option.md)]

### See also

[Where is the deal manager workspace?](faq-sales.yml#where-is-the-deal-manager-workspace)  
[Manage opportunities using pipeline view](use-opportunity-pipeline-view.md)  
[Column-level security to control access](/power-platform/admin/field-level-security)
[Events in forms and grids in model-driven apps](/power-apps/developer/model-driven-apps/clientapi/events-forms-grids)

Commit message:

Category: Content-Improvement Workitem: https://dynamicscrm.visualstudio.com/OneCRM/_workitems/edit/3374642 Description: Incorporate opportunity pipeline edits

ce/sales/opportunity-pipeline-view-for-admins.md, after:

---
title: Configure the opportunity pipeline view
description: Learn how to configure the opportunity pipeline view, formerly known as deal manager, to help sellers visualize their pipeline and manage opportunities better.
author: lavanyakr01
ms.author: lavanyakr
ms.reviewer: shujoshi
ms.topic: how-to 
ms.date: 05/11/2023
ms.custom: bap-template 
---

# Configure the opportunity pipeline view

The opportunity pipeline view (formerly known as deal manager) helps your sellers visualize, prioritize, and manage the opportunities in their pipeline. More information: [Use the opportunity pipeline view](use-opportunity-pipeline-view.md)

If you previously configured the deal manager workspace, learn about the [differences between the opportunity pipeline view and the deal manager workspace](faq-sales.yml#are-there-any-differences-between-the-opportunity-pipeline-view-and-the-deal-manager-workspace).

## License and role requirements

| Requirement type | You must have |  
|-----------------------|---------|
| **License** | Dynamics 365 Sales Premium or Dynamics 365 Sales Enterprise<br>More information: [Dynamics 365 Sales pricing](https://dynamics.microsoft.com/sales/pricing/) |
| **Security roles** | System Administrator<br> More information: [Predefined security roles for Sales](security-roles-for-sales.md) |

## Video: Opportunity pipeline view

Watch this short video to know how the opportunity pipeline view helps sellers be more productive and efficient.  

> [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/videoplayer/embed/RWONpe]

## Set the pipeline view as the default opportunities view

The **Read-only Grid view** is the default view for opportunities. You can set the **Opportunities pipeline view** as the default instead, so sellers don't have to switch to it each time they access their opportunities list.

1. In the Sales Hub navigation panel, select **Settings** > **Advanced Settings**.
1. In the **Settings** menu, select **Customizations** > **Customize the system**.
1. From the Power Apps Default Solution page, select **Entities** > **Opportunity**.
1. Select the **Controls** tab, and then select **Pipeline view** for web, phone, and tablet.

    If you don't see **Pipeline view** in the **Control** list, select **Add Control**, then select **Pipeline view**, and then select **Add**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/pipeline-set-as-default.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Controls tab with the Pipeline view set as the default for web, phone, and tablet." lightbox="media/pipeline-set-as-default.png":::

1. Save the changes and select **Publish**.
1. From the Sales Hub sitemap, select **Opportunities** to verify that the pipeline view is set as the default view.

    :::image type="content" source="media/deal-manager-overview-v1-small.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the opportunity pipeline view." lightbox="media/deal-manager-overview-v1.png":::

## Customize charts

The charts in the pipeline view help sellers visualize their pipeline. You can customize elements of the bubble chart and the funnel chart to change the information that sellers see.  

### Customize the bubble chart

1. In the Sales Hub navigation panel, select **App Settings**.
1. Under **General Settings**, select **Opportunity pipeline view**.
1. In the **Manage charts** section, edit **Deal tracker**.
1. Customize the following elements:
    - **Horizontal (x) axis**  
      Select any field of type `DateTime`. For example, you can plot the chart based on the delivered date instead of the closed date.  
    - **Vertical (y) axis**  
      Select any numerical field.
    - **Segment by**  
        Select what the color codes signify. For example, select **Pipeline Phase** to color-code the bubbles based on which phase an opportunity is in.
    - **Size**  
        Select a numerical field to indicate the size of the bubble.
    - **Sort legend**  
        Select how to sort the chart legend. Legends indicate the color used for each segment. For example, if you select **Opportunity grade** as the segment, the legends will be sorted based on the chronological order of the grades.
    - **Tooltips**  
        Select the details that you want users to see displayed as tooltips when they hover over a bubble.  

1. Save the changes and select **Publish**.
1. [Open the opportunity pipeline view](use-opportunity-pipeline-view.md#open-the-opportunity-pipeline-view) to verify the changes.

### Customize the funnel chart

1. In the Sales Hub navigation panel, select **App Settings**.
1. Under **General Settings**, select **Opportunity pipeline view**.
1. In the **Manage charts** section, edit **Sales funnel**.

    The following screenshot illustrates the parts of the funnel chart that you can customize:

    :::image type="content" source="media/funnel-chart-customization.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the funnel chart and its elements that can be customized." lightbox="media/funnel-chart-customization.png":::

1. Customize the following elements:
    - **Segment by**  
      Select the field for segmenting the funnel chart. **Default:** Pipeline phase  
    - **Values**  
      Select the field for sizing the bars in the funnel. **Default:** Est. revenue  
    - **Aggregation**  
        Select the aggregate function to use for the **Values** field. This field determines the height of the bar. The aggregate value is displayed when you hover over a segment in the funnel chart.
    - **Sort legend**  
        Specify how to sort the segments. For example, selecting Finish to start for a funnel chart segmented by pipeline phase will display the funnel from the last phase to first phase, that is from Close to Qualify.

1. Save the changes and select **Publish**.
1. [Open the opportunity pipeline view](use-opportunity-pipeline-view.md#open-the-opportunity-pipeline-view) to verify the changes.

## Customize the editable grid

The grid in the opportunity pipeline view is an instance of the Power Apps editable grid control. The grid can be both customized and personalized. As an administrator, you can [customize the grid](/power-apps/developer/component-framework/customize-editable-grid-control) for the entire sales organization. Sellers can [personalize their view](personalize-pipeline-view.md#what-can-you-personalize) to include the columns and filters they want to see.  

> [!NOTE]
> If you customized the editable grid in the deal manager using JavaScript, you need to redo those customizations in the pipeline view.

[!INCLUDE [cant-find-option](../includes/cant-find-option.md)]

### See also

[Where is the deal manager workspace?](faq-sales.yml#where-is-the-deal-manager-workspace)  
[Manage opportunities using pipeline view](use-opportunity-pipeline-view.md)  
[Column-level security to control access](/power-platform/admin/field-level-security)
[Events in forms and grids in model-driven apps](/power-apps/developer/model-driven-apps/clientapi/events-forms-grids)
