ce/sales/whats-new.md, before:

---
# required metadata
title: What's new or changed in Dynamics 365 Sales
description: This article points to articles that describe the new and changed features in each release of Dynamics 365 Sales.
author: lavanyakr01
ms.author: lavanyakr
ms.date: 04/03/2023
ms.custom: bap-template 
ms.topic: whats-new 
---
# What's new or changed in Dynamics 365 Sales

Wondering about upcoming and recently released capabilities in Dynamics 365 Sales? [Check out the release planner site](https://experience.dynamics.com/releaseplans/?app=sales). We've captured all the details, end to end, top to bottom, which you can use for planning.  

See the release plans for what's coming. Choose the following links to learn about the latest versions of Dynamics 365 Sales.

- [2023 release wave 1](/dynamics365/release-plan/2023wave1/sales/dynamics365-sales/planned-features)  
- [2022 release wave 2](/dynamics365-release-plan/2022wave2/sales/dynamics365-sales/planned-features)  

Keep track of changes on the [Dynamics 365 Sales release planner](https://experience.dynamics.com/releaseplans/?app=sales) site, or download the release plan as a single PDF.

Explore the app at the [Dynamics 365 Sales Capabilities](https://dynamics.microsoft.com/sales/overview/) site.

## Releases of Dynamics 365 Sales

Learn more about what's new or changed in recent releases in the links in the following table.

| Version | Auto-update availability | Learn more |
|---------|---------------|-------------|
|9.0.23023.10001 |  March 2023    |[What's new or changed in Dynamics 365 Sales (March 2023)](march-2023-whatsnew.md)|
| 9.0.23021.10001|  March 2023  | [What's new or changed in Dynamics 365 Sales (March 2023](march-2023-whatsnew.md) |

For earlier versions, see the archived release plans at [Release plans for Dynamics 365 and Power Platform](/dynamics365/release-plans/archived-plans).  

## Get the latest version

New customers automatically get the latest version. If you're an existing partner/customer, check your email for notifications about updates. 

For the latest available version in your region, see [Released Versions of Dynamics 365 Sales Enterprise](/dynamics365/released-versions/dynamics365sales).

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

whats new update for april

ce/sales/whats-new.md, after:

---
# required metadata
title: What's new or changed in Dynamics 365 Sales
description: This article points to articles that describe the new and changed features in each release of Dynamics 365 Sales.
author: lavanyakr01
ms.author: lavanyakr
ms.date: 04/03/2023
ms.custom: bap-template 
ms.topic: whats-new 
---
# What's new or changed in Dynamics 365 Sales

Wondering about upcoming and recently released capabilities in Dynamics 365 Sales? [Check out the release planner site](https://experience.dynamics.com/releaseplans/?app=sales). We've captured all the details, end to end, top to bottom, which you can use for planning.  

See the release plans for what's coming. Choose the following links to learn about the latest versions of Dynamics 365 Sales.

- [2023 release wave 1](/dynamics365/release-plan/2023wave1/sales/dynamics365-sales/planned-features)  
- [2022 release wave 2](/dynamics365-release-plan/2022wave2/sales/dynamics365-sales/planned-features)  

Keep track of changes on the [Dynamics 365 Sales release planner](https://experience.dynamics.com/releaseplans/?app=sales) site, or download the release plan as a single PDF.

Explore the app at the [Dynamics 365 Sales Capabilities](https://dynamics.microsoft.com/sales/overview/) site.

## Releases of Dynamics 365 Sales

Learn more about what's new or changed in recent releases in the links in the following table.

| Version | Auto-update availability | Learn more |
|---------|---------------|-------------|
| 9.0.23023.10001 | March 2023 | [What's new or changed in Dynamics 365 Sales (March 2023)](march-2023-whatsnew.md) |
| 9.0.23021.10001 | March 2023 | [What's new or changed in Dynamics 365 Sales (March 2023](march-2023-whatsnew.md) |

For earlier versions, see the archived release plans at [Release plans for Dynamics 365 and Power Platform](/dynamics365/release-plans/archived-plans).  

## April 2023 release

We're excited to announce our newest updates! This article summarizes early access, public preview, and general availability features that were released in the month of April.

| Feature area | Feature | Description | Resources | Enabled by | Availability |
|--------------|---------|-------------|-----------|------------|--------------|
| Sales engagement | Segments | Set priority for segments when assigning records that match multiple segments. | [Documentation](prioritize-segment.md) | System Administrator, Sales Manager, or Sequence Manager | GA |
| Lead management | Duplicate lead detection | The duplicate lead detection feature in Dynamics 365 Sales helps you to detect duplicate leads. If you have customized main lead form, you can enable it manually. | [Documentation](enable-duplicate-detection-custom-forms.md) | System Administrator | GA |
| Lead management | Email validation | The email validation feature in Dynamics 365 Sales helps you to validate email addresses. If you have customized the main lead form, you can enable email validation manually. | [Documentation](enable-email-validation-custom-forms.md) |System Administrator | GA |
| Contact management | Email validation | Enable email validation in Dynamics 365 Sales to remove invalid email addresses from your contact records. | [Documentation](enable-email-validation.md) | System Administrator | Public preview |


## March 2023 release

We're excited to announce our newest updates! This article summarizes early access, public preview, and general availability features that were released in the month of March.

|Feature area  |Feature  |Description  |Resources  |Enabled by |Availability  |
|---------|---------|---------|---------|---------|---------|
| Sales engagement | Engage with your Customers using SMS conversation | Support for incoming SMS, routing them to appropriate records, and showing them in the timeline. | [Documentation](manage-text-message-communications.md) | Enabled by admin | Public preview |
| Sales engagement | Engage with your Customers using SMS conversation | Support for sending and receiving SMS from Contact, Lead and Account forms. | [Documentation](sms-intro.md) | Enabled by default | GA |
| Sales engagement | Prioritize segments | Set priority for the segments so that the records are connected to the right segment when there are multiple matching segments. | [Documentation](prioritize-segment.md) | Enabled by default | GA |
| Collaboration | Linked chats in timeline | View linked chats in the timeline of a record. | [Documentation](teams-integration/join-chat.md) | Enabled by default | GA |
| Predictive scoring | Real-time scoring | View prediction for a new lead in near real time. | [Documentation](work-predictive-lead-scoring.md#real-time-scoring) | Enabled by default | GA |
| Sales engagement | Prioritize your engagements by using focused view | View and manage all your sales records and the associated activities on one page. | [Documentation](focused-view.md) | Enabled by default | Early access |

## Get the latest version

New customers automatically get the latest version. If you're an existing partner/customer, check your email for notifications about updates. 

For the latest available version in your region, see [Released Versions of Dynamics 365 Sales Enterprise](/dynamics365/released-versions/dynamics365sales).

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
