ce/field-service/access-related-apps-mobile-app.md, before:

---
title: Access related apps form the Field Service mobile app
description: Learn about the related applications and how to access them from the mobile app.
ms.date: 06/20/2023
ms.topic: article
ms.subservice: field-service-mobile
author: josephshum-msft
ms.author: jshum
---

# Access related apps form the Field Service mobile app

## IoT

Technicians can view and interact with IoT data and IoT actions like pulling live device data or registering new devices in the mobile app.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Simulated image showing three phones with Field Service mobile app and IoT device readings.](./media/mobile-2020-cfs.png)

As seen in the following image, technicians can also view a chart of live IoT data from an IoT device, customer asset, or IoT alert record.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Simulated image showing live device readings.](./media/cfs-device-readings-mobile.png)

For more information, see the article on [Connected Field Service for the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app](cfs-mobile-powerapp.md).

## Trigger Dynamics 365 Remote Assist for remote collaboration

Organizations using Dynamics 365 Remote Assist will see technicians can trigger a deep link from the work order to open the Dynamics 365 Remote Assist mobile app.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Screenshot of four mobile devices showing Field Service Mobile, and the workflow that brings up the Dynamics 365 Remote Assist launching option.](./media/remote-assist-booking-deeplink.png)

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Simulated image showing a phone with Field Service mobile and a menu option to launch Dynamics 365 Remote Assist.](./media/mobile-2020-remote-assist.png)

For more information, see the article: [Using Field Service with Dynamics 365 Remote Assist](remote-assist-hololens.md).

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

draft tabbed view for offline and integrations

ce/field-service/access-related-apps-mobile-app.md, after:

---
title: Access related apps form the Field Service mobile app
description: Learn about the related applications and how to access them from the mobile app.
ms.date: 06/20/2023
ms.topic: article
ms.subservice: field-service-mobile
author: josephshum-msft
ms.author: jshum
---

# Access related apps form the Field Service mobile app

## IoT data from Connected Field Service

Organizations using Connected Field Service to track their IoT devices find a subset of that information readily available in the mobile app. For more information, see [Connected Field Service for the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app](cfs-mobile-powerapp.md).

### [UCI app](#tab/vCurrent)

Technicians can view and interact with IoT data and IoT actions like pulling live device data or registering new devices in the mobile app.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Simulated image showing three phones with Field Service mobile app and IoT device readings.](./media/mobile-2020-cfs.png)

Live charts for IoT data from an IoT device, customer asset, or IoT alert record are available at your fingertips.

### [Native UX](#tab/vNext)

<!--- Content here  -->

--- 

## Trigger Dynamics 365 Remote Assist for remote collaboration

### [UCI app](#tab/vCurrent)


Organizations using Dynamics 365 Remote Assist have a deep link from the work order to open the Dynamics 365 Remote Assist mobile app. For more information, see [Using Field Service with Dynamics 365 Remote Assist](remote-assist-hololens.md).

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Screenshot of four mobile devices showing Field Service Mobile, and the workflow that brings up the Dynamics 365 Remote Assist launching option.](./media/remote-assist-booking-deeplink.png)

### [Native UX](#tab/vNext)

<!--- Content here  -->

--- 


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
