ce/field-service/download-get-started-mobile-app.md, before:

---
title: Download the mobile app and get started
description: Learn where to download the mobile app for Field Service and how to get stated using it.
ms.date: 08/02/2023
ms.topic: article
ms.subservice: field-service-mobile
author: josephshum-msft
ms.author: jshum
---

# Download the mobile app and get started

Available natively for Apple iOS and Google Android phones and tablets, as well as Windows laptops and tablets, the Field Service (Dynamics 365) Mobile app offers technicians the capabilities they need for onsite customer service.

## Prerequisites

Before technicians can use the mobile app, a system administrator must [set up the Field Service (Dynamics 365) Mobile app](mobile-power-app-get-started.md) along with users and security roles.

## Download

Go to the app store on your iOS, Android, or Windows device and search for **Dynamics 365 Field Service**.

Download the app called **Field Service (Dynamics 365)**.

## Sign in

Launch the app and sign in with your username and password for Field Service.  

If you can't sign in, contact your organization's administrator. They may need to [set up users and security roles](view-user-accounts-security-roles.md).

After you sign in, the app may download offline data to your device. It can take some time to complete. The downloaded data depends on your administrator's settings for the offline profile of the mobile app.

## View scheduled work orders

## [Unified Interface UX](#tab/vCurrent)

The first screen shows a calendar view of your scheduled work orders.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Two mobile devices showing the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app. The screen on the left has a list of My Open Resource Bookings by date. The screen on the right has a list of My Open Resource Bookings in a flat list.](./media/mobile-2020-booking-view.jpg)

In the footer, select **More** > **Show as** > **Read-only Grid** to see the bookings as a list instead.

## [New mobile UX (preview)](#tab/vNext)

The home screen shows today's scheduled work orders for the signed in user.

You can filter the list by work order status at the top of the booking list.

You can also sort the list by various dimensions (Account, Incident type, Time, Duration) by selecting **Sort by** on the top right of the list.

The menu at the bottom allows for easy access to the bookings home page (**Home**), the [embedded Guides feature](access-related-apps-mobile-app.md#embedded-guides-in-field-service-mobile-preview) (**Library**), and to the [app navigation menu](#navigate-the-app) (**More**).

Select the profile picture in the header to access settings, provide feedback, and change the environment.

> [!div]
> ![Screenshot of bookings home page, filter, sort in the Field Service Mobile app in preview](./media/mobile-newux-bookings.png)

Each work order in the list exposes some quick actions in the contextual menu or by swiping from left to right, which allows technicians to quickly update the status of the booking and to get directions directly from the home page.

> [!div]
> ![Screenshot of quick actions, swiping in the Field Service Mobile app home page in preview](./media/mobile-newux-swipe.png)

---

## Navigate the app

## [Unified Interface UX](#tab/vCurrent)

To get to the sitemap, select the menu icon. The sitemap quickly gets you to important information like accounts, contacts, customer assets, or to submit time entries.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Two mobile devices showing the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app. The device on the left shows the full menu for Field Service (Dynamics 365). The device on the right shows an account detail page.](./media/mobile-2020-sitemap-account.jpg)

## [New mobile UX (preview)](#tab/vNext)

To access the app navigation in the new mobile UX (preview), select "More..." in the bottom right. All items in sitemap open the corresponding screens in the Unified Interface UX.

> [!div]
> ![Screenshot of navigation in the Field Service Mobile app home page in preview](./media/mobile-newux-navigation.png)

---

## Recent and pinned records

In the sitemap, use the **Recent** option to quickly find things you recently looked at, like work orders, assets, time entries, and more.

You can also **Pin** important records for quick access.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Device render showing the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app, showing the recent and pin icons in the menu.](./media/mobile-2020-menu-pin.png)

## Troubleshoot the app

If you run into issues with the app, you can often solve them by removing all cached data.

On the sitemap, select your profile icon in the top left and choose **Reconfigure**.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Device render showing the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app, showing the reconfigure option.](./media/mobile-2020-offline-reconfigure.png)

Reconfiguring deletes data and metadata for the current organization from the cache.

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

add preview notes for mobile app

ce/field-service/download-get-started-mobile-app.md, after:

---
title: Download the mobile app and get started
description: Learn where to download the mobile app for Field Service and how to get stated using it.
ms.date: 08/02/2023
ms.topic: article
ms.subservice: field-service-mobile
author: josephshum-msft
ms.author: jshum
---

# Download the mobile app and get started

Available natively for Apple iOS and Google Android phones and tablets, as well as Windows laptops and tablets, the Field Service (Dynamics 365) Mobile app offers technicians the capabilities they need for onsite customer service.

## Prerequisites

Before technicians can use the mobile app, a system administrator must [set up the Field Service (Dynamics 365) Mobile app](mobile-power-app-get-started.md) along with users and security roles.

## Download

Go to the app store on your iOS, Android, or Windows device and search for **Dynamics 365 Field Service**.

Download the app called **Field Service (Dynamics 365)**.

## Sign in

Launch the app and sign in with your username and password for Field Service.  

If you can't sign in, contact your organization's administrator. They may need to [set up users and security roles](view-user-accounts-security-roles.md).

After you sign in, the app may download offline data to your device. It can take some time to complete. The downloaded data depends on your administrator's settings for the offline profile of the mobile app.

## View scheduled work orders

## [Unified Interface UX](#tab/vCurrent)

The first screen shows a calendar view of your scheduled work orders.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Two mobile devices showing the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app. The screen on the left has a list of My Open Resource Bookings by date. The screen on the right has a list of My Open Resource Bookings in a flat list.](./media/mobile-2020-booking-view.jpg)

In the footer, select **More** > **Show as** > **Read-only Grid** to see the bookings as a list instead.

## [New mobile UX (preview)](#tab/vNext)

[!INCLUDE [public-preview-banner](../includes/public-preview-banner.md)]

[!INCLUDE [public-preview-note](../includes/public-preview-note.md)]

The home screen shows today's scheduled work orders for the signed in user.

You can filter the list by work order status at the top of the booking list.

You can also sort the list by various dimensions (Account, Incident type, Time, Duration) by selecting **Sort by** on the top right of the list.

The menu at the bottom allows for easy access to the bookings home page (**Home**), the [embedded Guides feature](access-related-apps-mobile-app.md#embedded-guides-in-field-service-dynamics-365-mobile-preview) (**Library**), and to the [app navigation menu](#navigate-the-app) (**More**).

Select the profile picture in the header to access settings, provide feedback, and change the environment.

> [!div]
> ![Screenshot of bookings home page, filter, sort in the Field Service Mobile app in preview](./media/mobile-newux-bookings.png)

Each work order in the list exposes some quick actions in the contextual menu or by swiping from left to right, which allows technicians to quickly update the status of the booking and to get directions directly from the home page.

> [!div]
> ![Screenshot of quick actions, swiping in the Field Service Mobile app home page in preview](./media/mobile-newux-swipe.png)

---

## Navigate the app

## [Unified Interface UX](#tab/vCurrent)

To get to the sitemap, select the menu icon. The sitemap quickly gets you to important information like accounts, contacts, customer assets, or to submit time entries.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Two mobile devices showing the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app. The device on the left shows the full menu for Field Service (Dynamics 365). The device on the right shows an account detail page.](./media/mobile-2020-sitemap-account.jpg)

## [New mobile UX (preview)](#tab/vNext)

[!INCLUDE [public-preview-banner](../includes/public-preview-banner.md)]

[!INCLUDE [public-preview-note](../includes/public-preview-note.md)]

To access the app navigation in the new mobile UX (preview), select "More..." in the bottom right. All items in sitemap open the corresponding screens in the Unified Interface UX.

> [!div]
> ![Screenshot of navigation in the Field Service Mobile app home page in preview](./media/mobile-newux-navigation.png)

---

## Recent and pinned records

In the sitemap, use the **Recent** option to quickly find things you recently looked at, like work orders, assets, time entries, and more.

You can also **Pin** important records for quick access.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Device render showing the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app, showing the recent and pin icons in the menu.](./media/mobile-2020-menu-pin.png)

## Troubleshoot the app

If you run into issues with the app, you can often solve them by removing all cached data.

On the sitemap, select your profile icon in the top left and choose **Reconfigure**.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Device render showing the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app, showing the reconfigure option.](./media/mobile-2020-offline-reconfigure.png)

Reconfiguring deletes data and metadata for the current organization from the cache.

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
