ce/field-service/get-work-done-mobile-app.md, before:

---
title: Complete work orders on the mobile app
description: Learn how to complete the assigned work orders using the Field Service mobile app.
ms.date: 06/20/2023
ms.topic: article
ms.subservice: field-service-mobile
author: josephshum-msft
ms.author: jshum
---

# Complete work orders on the mobile app

Technicians can use various features in the mobile app to efficiently plan their work day, track their work orders, and see details about customers. Other features include:

- A calendar view of assigned jobs with all details about the jobs
- Picture, video, and asset barcode scanning
- Integrations in other Microsoft applications for seamless collaboration
- Offline capabilities to work in areas without internet

## Travel to a job location

## [Unified Interface app](#tab/vCurrent)

Select a booking to see more details about the booking time and the work order. Update the status to indicate you're driving to the customer location. On the **Customer** tab, you can see the work order location on a map to launch turn-by-turn driving directions on your preferred maps app.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Two mobile devices side by side, both showing the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app. Device on the left shows a bookable resource booking on the general tab. Device on the right shows a map.](./media/mobile-2020-work-order-navigate-directions-map.jpg)

The functional location field on the work order tells the technician exactly where to go within an address.

## [Public Preview app](#tab/vNext)

It is possible to change the status of the booking to **Traveling** directly from the booking home page, by swiping the desired booking from left to right or by tapping on the booking's contextual menu to access its quick actions and selecting the desired status. The same thing can be accomplished by tapping on the booking itself and then tapping on the **Edit status** button in the **General** tab.

> [!div]
> ![Screenshot of Status change to traveling in the Field Service Mobile app](./media/mobile-public-preview-traveling.png)

---

## Perform and record work

## [Unified Interface app](#tab/vCurrent)

On the **Service tab**, you see work order details like work order service tasks, products, and services. Mark a service or service task as complete and include the products used. Adjust the product units and the service hours as needed. Selecting the service task, service, or product name opens the full details form.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Three mobile devices with Field Service (Dynamics 365) open. First screenshot on the left shows the service tab on the bookable resource booking. Middle screenshot shows the service tab. Right screenshot shows the notes tab.](./media/mobile-2020-work-order-service-notes-new.jpg)

## [Public Preview app](#tab/vNext)

Once ready to perform the work, simply access the booking details view, by tapping on the booking tile on the booking home page. You will see three separate tabs for work order service tasks (**Tasks**), products (**Products**), and services (**Services**). Mark a service or service task as complete and include the products used. Adjust the product units and the service hours as needed. Selecting the service task, service, or product name opens the full details form.

> [!div]
> ![Screenshot of performing work in the Field Service Mobile app. Tasks, products and services.](./media/mobile-public-preview-work.png)

---

## Take notes with attachments

## [Unified Interface app](#tab/vCurrent)

On the **Notes** tab, capture text, image, audio, and video notes and associate them with the booking. You can also attach files and capture signatures. These notes help you record and build a work history.
The **Timeline** tab is available for other historical data related to the booking.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Three mobile devices with Field Service (Dynamics 365) open. First screenshot on the left shows the notes tab with options to attach notes. Middle screenshot shows camera view. Right screenshot shows the notes tab with photo notes added.](./media/mobile-uci-quick-notes.png)

> [!NOTE]
> Notes are only available when included with the Bookable Resource Booking form. The control doesn't support other entities.
> Notes taken in the Field Service mobile app are stored in the `msdyn_bookableresourcebookingquicknotes` table. The default **Field Service - Resource** security role includes permissions to this table. If your app users do not have the out-of-the-box **Field Service - Resource** security role, you may have to include access to this table for these users. Follow the best practices described in the [Field Service security roles documentation](/dynamics365/field-service/view-user-accounts-security-roles#q--a) to make sure your app users have access to this table.

## [Public Preview app](#tab/vNext)

In Public Preview you take notes directly in the **Timeline** tab. Simply tap on the **+* Add note** button and add text and/or images to your note. 

> [!div]
> ![Screenshot of notes in the timeline in the Field Service Mobile app](./media/mobile-public-preview-notes.png)

> [!NOTE]
> The control currently supports only text and images. More media formats will be supported in subsequent versions.
> Notes in the Timeline are associated with the current booking and cannot currently be viewed at the Work Order level.

---

## Service assets

## [Unified Interface app](#tab/vCurrent)

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Device with the Field Service mobile app, showing active customer assets in a list.](./media/mobile-2020-customer-asset-navigate.png)

Technicians can also view and interact with functional locations and customer asset hierarchies on the mobile app when connected to the internet.

For a guided walkthrough of functional locations on the Field Service mobile app, check out the following video.

> [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/videoplayer/embed/RE4I2pU]

## [Public Preview app](#tab/vNext)

To reach this functionality simply navigate to the app menu and follow the same steps as the **Unified Interface app**.

---

## Barcode scanning

## [Unified Interface app](#tab/vCurrent)

Select the search icon to find records from any entity. You can also search by scanning a barcode to find records that have a matching barcode field.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Four mobile devices in different stages of the barcode scan process.](./media/mobile-2020-global-search-use.png)

For more information, see the article on [configuring global search](mobile-power-app-system-barcode-scanning.md).

## [Public Preview app](#tab/vNext)

To reach this functionality simply tap on the top search icon in the booking home page, then follow the same steps as the **Unified Interface app**.

---

## Time entry

## [Unified Interface app](#tab/vCurrent)

Track the time that technicians spend during work orders and other scenarios and create time entries in the mobile app.

Time entries are useful for reporting and billing purposes.

From the main menu, go to **Time Entry** and create a new one.  

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Time entry on the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app.](./media/mobile-2020-time-entry-all.png)

For a guided walkthrough, check out the following video.

> [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/videoplayer/embed/RE4J6mQ]

## [Public Preview app](#tab/vNext)

To reach this functionality simply navigate to the app menu and follow the same steps as the **Unified Interface app**.


---

## Create follow-up work orders

## [Unified Interface app](#tab/vCurrent)

While working on site, you may want to log work for another time. The Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app makes it easy to create follow-up work orders.

For a guided walkthrough, check out the following video.

> [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/videoplayer/embed/RWyHY4]

To create a follow-up work order, select the **Follow up** option in the bottom app menu. This option is only available the user has **create** permissions for the work order table. For more information on the security roles, see [users and security roles](./view-user-accounts-security-roles.md).

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Device render showing the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app, showing the follow up work order option.](./media/mobile-2020-follow-up.png)

The following fields are already filled in based on the current work order:

- Address
- Billing Account
- Service Account
- Service Territory
- Exchange Rate
- Tax Code
- Taxable
- Transaction Currency ID

Once the technician saves the work order, it's uploaded and available for booking to the dispatcher.

## [Public Preview app](#tab/vNext)

To reach this functionality simply navigate to the app menu and follow the same steps as the **Unified Interface app**.

---

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

added screenshots for maps/directions, more screenshots

ce/field-service/get-work-done-mobile-app.md, after:

---
title: Complete work orders on the mobile app
description: Learn how to complete the assigned work orders using the Field Service mobile app.
ms.date: 06/20/2023
ms.topic: article
ms.subservice: field-service-mobile
author: josephshum-msft
ms.author: jshum
---

# Complete work orders on the mobile app

Technicians can use various features in the mobile app to efficiently plan their work day, track their work orders, and see details about customers. Other features include:

- A calendar view of assigned jobs with all details about the jobs
- Picture, video, and asset barcode scanning
- Integrations in other Microsoft applications for seamless collaboration
- Offline capabilities to work in areas without internet

## Travel to a job location

## [Unified Interface app](#tab/vCurrent)

Select a booking to see more details about the booking time and the work order. Update the status to indicate you're driving to the customer location. On the **Customer** tab, you can see the work order location on a map to launch turn-by-turn driving directions on your preferred maps app.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Two mobile devices side by side, both showing the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app. Device on the left shows a bookable resource booking on the general tab. Device on the right shows a map.](./media/mobile-2020-work-order-navigate-directions-map.jpg)

The functional location field on the work order tells the technician exactly where to go within an address.

## [Public Preview app](#tab/vNext)

Change the status of a booking to **Traveling** directly from the booking home page, by swiping the desired booking from left to right or by tapping on the booking's contextual menu to access its quick actions and selecting the desired status. The same thing can be accomplished by tapping on the booking itself and then tapping on the **Edit status** button in the **General** tab.

> [!div]
> ![Screenshot of Status change to traveling in the Field Service Mobile app](./media/mobile-public-preview-traveling.png)

Open the default maps app to get directions by tapping on the directions icon directly from the bookings home page. You can decide if you want the booking status to change to **Traveling** when you do so.

> [!div]
> ![Screenshot of Status change to traveling in the Field Service Mobile app](./media/mobile-public-preview-traveling-directions.png)

---

## Perform and record work

## [Unified Interface app](#tab/vCurrent)

On the **Service tab**, you see work order details like work order service tasks, products, and services. Mark a service or service task as complete and include the products used. Adjust the product units and the service hours as needed. Selecting the service task, service, or product name opens the full details form.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Three mobile devices with Field Service (Dynamics 365) open. First screenshot on the left shows the service tab on the bookable resource booking. Middle screenshot shows the service tab. Right screenshot shows the notes tab.](./media/mobile-2020-work-order-service-notes-new.jpg)

## [Public Preview app](#tab/vNext)

Once ready to perform the work, simply access the booking details view, by tapping on the booking tile on the booking home page. You will see three separate tabs for work order service tasks (**Tasks**), products (**Products**), and services (**Services**). Mark a service or service task as complete and include the products used. Adjust the product units and the service hours as needed. Selecting the service task, service, or product name opens the full details form.

> [!div]
> ![Screenshot of performing work in the Field Service Mobile app. Tasks, products and services.](./media/mobile-public-preview-work.png)

---

## Take notes with attachments

## [Unified Interface app](#tab/vCurrent)

On the **Notes** tab, capture text, image, audio, and video notes and associate them with the booking. You can also attach files and capture signatures. These notes help you record and build a work history.
The **Timeline** tab is available for other historical data related to the booking.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Three mobile devices with Field Service (Dynamics 365) open. First screenshot on the left shows the notes tab with options to attach notes. Middle screenshot shows camera view. Right screenshot shows the notes tab with photo notes added.](./media/mobile-uci-quick-notes.png)

> [!NOTE]
> Notes are only available when included with the Bookable Resource Booking form. The control doesn't support other entities.
> Notes taken in the Field Service mobile app are stored in the `msdyn_bookableresourcebookingquicknotes` table. The default **Field Service - Resource** security role includes permissions to this table. If your app users do not have the out-of-the-box **Field Service - Resource** security role, you may have to include access to this table for these users. Follow the best practices described in the [Field Service security roles documentation](/dynamics365/field-service/view-user-accounts-security-roles#q--a) to make sure your app users have access to this table.

## [Public Preview app](#tab/vNext)

In Public Preview you take notes directly in the **Timeline** tab. Simply tap on the **+* Add note** button and add text and/or images to your note. 

> [!div]
> ![Screenshot of notes in the timeline in the Field Service Mobile app](./media/mobile-public-preview-notes.png)

> [!NOTE]
> Notes in the Timeline are associated with the current booking and cannot currently be viewed at the Work Order level.

---

## Service assets

## [Unified Interface app](#tab/vCurrent)

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Device with the Field Service mobile app, showing active customer assets in a list.](./media/mobile-2020-customer-asset-navigate.png)

Technicians can also view and interact with functional locations and customer asset hierarchies on the mobile app when connected to the internet.

For a guided walkthrough of functional locations on the Field Service mobile app, check out the following video.

> [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/videoplayer/embed/RE4I2pU]

## [Public Preview app](#tab/vNext)

To reach this functionality simply navigate to the app menu and follow the same steps as the **Unified Interface app**.

---

## Barcode scanning

## [Unified Interface app](#tab/vCurrent)

Select the search icon to find records from any entity. You can also search by scanning a barcode to find records that have a matching barcode field.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Four mobile devices in different stages of the barcode scan process.](./media/mobile-2020-global-search-use.png)

For more information, see the article on [configuring global search](mobile-power-app-system-barcode-scanning.md).

## [Public Preview app](#tab/vNext)

To reach this functionality simply tap on the top search icon in the booking home page, then follow the same steps as the **Unified Interface app**.

---

## Time entry

## [Unified Interface app](#tab/vCurrent)

Track the time that technicians spend during work orders and other scenarios and create time entries in the mobile app.

Time entries are useful for reporting and billing purposes.

From the main menu, go to **Time Entry** and create a new one.  

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Time entry on the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app.](./media/mobile-2020-time-entry-all.png)

For a guided walkthrough, check out the following video.

> [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/videoplayer/embed/RE4J6mQ]

## [Public Preview app](#tab/vNext)

To reach this functionality simply navigate to the app menu and follow the same steps as the **Unified Interface app**.


---

## Create follow-up work orders

## [Unified Interface app](#tab/vCurrent)

While working on site, you may want to log work for another time. The Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app makes it easy to create follow-up work orders.

For a guided walkthrough, check out the following video.

> [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/videoplayer/embed/RWyHY4]

To create a follow-up work order, select the **Follow up** option in the bottom app menu. This option is only available the user has **create** permissions for the work order table. For more information on the security roles, see [users and security roles](./view-user-accounts-security-roles.md).

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Device render showing the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app, showing the follow up work order option.](./media/mobile-2020-follow-up.png)

The following fields are already filled in based on the current work order:

- Address
- Billing Account
- Service Account
- Service Territory
- Exchange Rate
- Tax Code
- Taxable
- Transaction Currency ID

Once the technician saves the work order, it's uploaded and available for booking to the dispatcher.

## [Public Preview app](#tab/vNext)

To reach this functionality simply navigate to the app menu and follow the same steps as the **Unified Interface app**.

---

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
