ce/field-service/iot-partner-integrations.md, before:

---
title: IoT partner integrations
description: Learn how Field Service integrates with IoT-enabled devices from IoT vendors to extend functionality and enhance field service operations.
ms.date: 08/03/2023
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.subservice: connected-field-service
author: MSKeith
ms.author: keith
---

# IoT partner integrations

Dynamics 365 Field Service offers a seamless integration capability with IoT-enabled devices from various IoT vendors with its [IoT provider feature](cfs-custom-iot-provider.md). This article lists partners who have successfully integrated their IoT solutions with Dynamics 365 Field Service. Customers can connect to these partner solutions to their existing Field Service implementation.

## Main benefits of integrated solutions

- **Enhanced asset management**: Through the alignment of assets between Field Service and IoT solutions, businesses gain comprehensive visibility and control over their equipment and devices. Real-time asset tracking and monitoring leads to more efficient asset management practices.

- **Proactive maintenance and issue resolution**: Receive IoT alerts in Field Service from connected devices to enable proactive maintenance. Potential issues could be identified in advance, which reduces downtime and minimizes costly breakdowns.

- **Optimized workflows**: With IoT alerts seamlessly flowing into Field Service, you can automate the dispatch process of cases or work orders to ensure faster response times and better service delivery.

- **Data-driven decision making**: The combination of IoT data and field service information empowers organizations to make data-driven decisions.

- **Customer satisfaction**: Using IoT data to improve service delivery, businesses can enhance customer experiences. Faster response times, proactive maintenance, and reduced downtime lead to higher customer satisfaction and loyalty.

## IoT partners

The following partners offer IoT solutions that integrate seamlessly with Field Service.

### Iconics

Iconics CFSWorX is a powerful solution for facilities management, offering efficient management of building systems, equipment, and assets. When integrated with Dynamics 365 Field Service, it combines field service management with facilities management. This seamless integration streamlines coordination of field service technicians and resources to optimize maintenance processes and improve operational efficiency. The combined solution provides real-time insights, data-driven decision-making, and proactive maintenance strategies, which result in extended asset lifespan, higher customer satisfaction, and improved resource utilization.

<!--
Learn more about Iconics CFSWorX and its integration with Dynamics 365 Field Service.
-->

### Willow

Willow offers a cutting-edge solution for the built world through their digital twin platform. By integrating Willow's digital twin platform with Dynamics 365 Field Service, organizations can transform their facilities management and field service operations. The combination of real-time data insights and bidirectional data sync enables efficient building and facilities management, optimized scheduling, and proactive maintenance strategies. This integration promotes collaboration and sustainability, leading to enhanced user experiences, improved asset performance, and overall business success in the built environment.

<!--
Learn more about Willow's integration with Dynamics 365 Field Service.
-->

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

update partner info to table

ce/field-service/iot-partner-integrations.md, after:

---
title: IoT partner integrations
description: Learn how Field Service integrates with IoT-enabled devices from IoT vendors to extend functionality and enhance field service operations.
ms.date: 08/03/2023
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.subservice: connected-field-service
author: MSKeith
ms.author: keith
---

# IoT partner integrations

Dynamics 365 Field Service offers a seamless integration capability with IoT-enabled devices from various IoT vendors with its [IoT provider feature](cfs-custom-iot-provider.md). This article lists partners who have successfully integrated their IoT solutions with Dynamics 365 Field Service. Customers can connect to these partner solutions to their existing Field Service implementation.

## Main benefits of integrated solutions

- **Enhanced asset management**: Through the alignment of assets between Field Service and IoT solutions, businesses gain comprehensive visibility and control over their equipment and devices. Real-time asset tracking and monitoring leads to more efficient asset management practices.

- **Proactive maintenance and issue resolution**: Receive IoT alerts in Field Service from connected devices to enable proactive maintenance. Potential issues could be identified in advance, which reduces downtime and minimizes costly breakdowns.

- **Optimized workflows**: With IoT alerts seamlessly flowing into Field Service, you can automate the dispatch process of cases or work orders to ensure faster response times and better service delivery.

- **Data-driven decision making**: The combination of IoT data and field service information empowers organizations to make data-driven decisions.

- **Customer satisfaction**: Using IoT data to improve service delivery, businesses can enhance customer experiences. Faster response times, proactive maintenance, and reduced downtime lead to higher customer satisfaction and loyalty.

## IoT partners

The following partners offer IoT solutions that integrate seamlessly with Field Service.

|Partner  |Description  |
|---------|---------|
| Iconics GENESIS64 <br> :::image type="content" source="media/iconics-200px.png" alt-text="Iconics company logo."::: |  Iconics GENESIS64™ is a powerful solution for facilities management, offering efficient management of building systems, equipment, and assets. When integrated with Dynamics 365 Field Service, it combines field service management with facilities management. This seamless integration streamlines coordination of field service technicians and resources to optimize maintenance processes and improve operational efficiency. The combined solution provides real-time insights, data-driven decision-making, and proactive maintenance strategies, which result in extended asset lifespan, higher customer satisfaction, and improved resource utilization. |
|Willow <br>     | Willow offers a cutting-edge solution for the built world through their digital twin platform. By integrating Willow's digital twin platform with Dynamics 365 Field Service, organizations can transform their facilities management and field service operations. The combination of real-time data insights and bidirectional data sync enables efficient building and facilities management, optimized scheduling, and proactive maintenance strategies. This integration promotes collaboration and sustainability, leading to enhanced user experiences, improved asset performance, and overall business success in the built environment.
   |

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
