ce/field-service/mobile-power-app-configure.md, before:

---
title: "Edit Sitemap entities (tables) on the home screen | MicrosoftDocs"
description: Learn about how to change the sitemap, forms, and views in the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app.
ms.date: 11/09/2021
ms.topic: article
ms.subservice: field-service-mobile
applies_to: 
  - "Dynamics 365 (online)"
  - "Dynamics 365 Version 9.x"
author: Andrea-Orimoto
ms.author: andreo
---

# Edit Sitemap entities (tables) on the home screen

This document describes how to manage the Field Service Mobile app navigation menu. 

## [Unified Interface app](#tab/vCurrent)

To access the app navigation in the current production app simply tap on the top left menu icon.

Screenshot

## [Public Preview app](#tab/vNext)

To access the app navigation in the Public Preview app simply tap on the "More..." button on the bottom right.

Screenshot

---


Sign in to Dynamics 365 as a system administrator.

To see your list of apps, go to:

`https://[YOUR-ENVIRONMENT-NAME].crm.dynamics.com/main.aspx?forceUCI=1&pagetype=apps`

Find the Field Service Mobile app and go to the **App Designer**.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Screenshot of Dynamics 365, showing the list of apps and showing the option to open Field Service Mobile in the App Designer.](./media/mobile-2020-admin-app-designer.png)

Select the edit icon to edit the site map.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Screenshot of the App Designer in Power Apps, showing the Field Service Mobile site map option.](./media/mobile-2020-admin-sitemap1.png)

The groups  **My Work**, **Customers**, and **Other** correspond with the home screen of the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app and you can rearrange, delete, or edit the display names.

Rearrange the entities displayed within each group with the drag and drop interface, or add new entities by adding new **Subareas**.


> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Screenshot of Power Apps, showing the My Work, Customers, and Other groups on the Field Service Mobile App Designer.](./media/mobile-2020-admin-sitemap2.png)

You can even create entirely new groups with more subareas to display different entities.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Screenshot of Power Apps, showing Field Service Mobile in the App Designer, and showing a simulated mobile device on the right with the corresponding changes.](./media/mobile-2020-admin-sitemap3.png)

> [!Note]
> For every entity you display in the sitemap, you can choose the views available on mobile in the App Designer.




## Edit mobile views

- [Create and edit public or system model-driven app views](/powerapps/maker/model-driven-apps/create-edit-views-app-designer) 

- [Customize entity views](/powerapps/developer/model-driven-apps/customize-entity-views)

- [Customize Booking Calendar](/dynamics365/field-service/mobile-powerapp-customize-booking-calendar)

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

added UCI nav screenshot in map editing doc, added draft content of PuP nav in get started doc

ce/field-service/mobile-power-app-configure.md, after:

---
title: "Edit Sitemap entities (tables) on the home screen | MicrosoftDocs"
description: Learn about how to change the sitemap, forms, and views in the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app.
ms.date: 11/09/2021
ms.topic: article
ms.subservice: field-service-mobile
applies_to: 
  - "Dynamics 365 (online)"
  - "Dynamics 365 Version 9.x"
author: Andrea-Orimoto
ms.author: andreo
---

# Edit Sitemap entities (tables) on the home screen

This document describes how to manage the Field Service Mobile app navigation menu. 

## [Unified Interface app](#tab/vCurrent)

To access the app navigation in the current production app simply tap on the top left menu icon.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Two mobile devices showing the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app. The device on the left shows the full menu for Field Service (Dynamics 365). The device on the right shows an account detail page.](./media/mobile-2020-sitemap-account.jpg)

## [Public Preview app](#tab/vNext)

To access the app navigation in the Public Preview app simply tap on the "More..." button on the bottom right.

Screenshot

---


Sign in to Dynamics 365 as a system administrator.

To see your list of apps, go to:

`https://[YOUR-ENVIRONMENT-NAME].crm.dynamics.com/main.aspx?forceUCI=1&pagetype=apps`

Find the Field Service Mobile app and go to the **App Designer**.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Screenshot of Dynamics 365, showing the list of apps and showing the option to open Field Service Mobile in the App Designer.](./media/mobile-2020-admin-app-designer.png)

Select the edit icon to edit the site map.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Screenshot of the App Designer in Power Apps, showing the Field Service Mobile site map option.](./media/mobile-2020-admin-sitemap1.png)

The groups  **My Work**, **Customers**, and **Other** correspond with the home screen of the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app and you can rearrange, delete, or edit the display names.

Rearrange the entities displayed within each group with the drag and drop interface, or add new entities by adding new **Subareas**.


> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Screenshot of Power Apps, showing the My Work, Customers, and Other groups on the Field Service Mobile App Designer.](./media/mobile-2020-admin-sitemap2.png)

You can even create entirely new groups with more subareas to display different entities.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Screenshot of Power Apps, showing Field Service Mobile in the App Designer, and showing a simulated mobile device on the right with the corresponding changes.](./media/mobile-2020-admin-sitemap3.png)

> [!Note]
> For every entity you display in the sitemap, you can choose the views available on mobile in the App Designer.




## Edit mobile views

- [Create and edit public or system model-driven app views](/powerapps/maker/model-driven-apps/create-edit-views-app-designer) 

- [Customize entity views](/powerapps/developer/model-driven-apps/customize-entity-views)

- [Customize Booking Calendar](/dynamics365/field-service/mobile-powerapp-customize-booking-calendar)

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
