ce/field-service/mobile-power-app-use.md, before:

---
title: Work with the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app
description: Learn how to use the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app.
ms.date: 11/18/2022
ms.topic: article
ms.subservice: field-service-mobile
author: josephshum-msft
ms.author: jshum
---


# Work with the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app

The Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app enables technicians to view and update work orders, customer assets, accounts, and more on the go. You can download the app for all major platforms for free. A Field Service user license and user permissions are required to work with the app.

The following articles describe how frontline workers or technicians get the most out of the mobile application. They describe the main features and list guiding principles: 

- [Download the mobile app and get started](download-get-started-mobile-app.md)
- [Complete work orders on the mobile app](get-work-done-mobile-app.md)
- [Work offline and update offline data](work-offline-mobile-app.md)
- [Access related apps form the Field Service mobile app](access-related-apps-mobile-app.md)

Currently, there are two versions of the mobile app available. Administrators choose which version their organization uses. By default, it's a model-driven Power Apps application based on the Unified Interface for Dynamics 365. Administrators can opt in to use the new and refreshed version with optimized user experience. The new experience is in preview and not intended for production use. Features in the preview version that don't support the new experience will continue to use the default experience.

The documentation articles let you change between the default and the new experience with tabs in the sections that describe a feature. Switching tabs in one section will automatically switch the content for the other sections too.

Commit message:

#3462850 Updated text in the Use the mobile app, removing mentions to 'two versions', hopefully this is simpler/clearer

ce/field-service/mobile-power-app-use.md, after:

---
title: Work with the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app
description: Learn how to use the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app.
ms.date: 11/18/2022
ms.topic: article
ms.subservice: field-service-mobile
author: josephshum-msft
ms.author: jshum
---


# Work with the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app

The Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app enables technicians to view and update work orders, customer assets, accounts, and more on the go. You can download the app for all major platforms for free. A Field Service user license and user permissions are required to work with the app.

The following articles describe how frontline workers or technicians get the most out of the mobile application. They describe the main features and list guiding principles: 

- [Download the mobile app and get started](download-get-started-mobile-app.md)
- [Complete work orders on the mobile app](get-work-done-mobile-app.md)
- [Work offline and update offline data](work-offline-mobile-app.md)
- [Access related apps form the Field Service mobile app](access-related-apps-mobile-app.md)

We have recently released Public Preview features in the app, learn more about it [here](mobile-public-preview-overview.md))

The documentation articles let you change between the default and the Public Preview experience with tabs in the sections that describe a feature. Switching tabs in one section will automatically switch the content for the other sections too.
