ce/field-service/transparency-note-work-order-recap.md, before:

---
title: Transparency note for work order recap with copilot
description: This transparency note provides information about the AI technology used in the work order recap feature.
ms.date: 07/03/2023
ms.custom: 
  - transparency-note
ms.topic: article
author: m-hartmann
ms.author: mhart
ms.reviewer: jacohen
---

# Transparency note for work order recap with copilot

This transparency note describes the AI impact of the Dynamics 365 Field Service work order recap feature.

## What is work order recap?

The AI-Powered work order recap feature provides a succinct, status-relevant summary of a work order and its related contextual data. This feature is designed to help service managers, dispatchers, and frontline workers quickly understand the current state of a work order, including many aspects of its past developments, future actions, arrival times, work criticality, and parts used or to be used.

## What are the system’s capabilities?

The system uses the requesting user's security context to pull relevant data based on the status of the work order to create the recap. Assuming the data in present on the record, the recap includes a summary of the work order, booking details, activities, notes, products, services, and service tasks involved in the work order. Additional information, such as requirement characteristics, asset details, and invoice information, may be included based on the work order's current system status.

## What is the system’s intended use?

As a work order progresses through its lifecycle, the work order recap provides a contextually relevant summary tailored to the status of the work order. It aims to provide a high-level recap which can be quickly consumed by a user which may help them determine what about the given record requires deeper investigation. This feature uses AI to generate a brief summary and is not intended to be a replacement for thorough investigation of each work order and relevant related information.

## How was work order's Copilot recap evaluated? What metrics are used to measure performance?

- This feature was evaluated using English. At this time, use of the of the feature in any other language is unsupported.
- The recap was tested to evaluate prompt accuracy and performance. Responses are expected to be limited to the context provided from the work order.
  - During testing, the quality of the content is heavily influenced by the quality of the data in the system.
  - No content fabrication was observed during testing; however, there were some instances observed of inaccurate summarization of the data shared within the prompt.

## What are the limitations of work order's Copilot Recap? How can users minimize the impact of the [Feature] limitations when using the system?

- This feature is currently in preview.
  - Users are encouraged to provide feedback on the quality of the content using the like/dislike icon buttons within the feature's control.
- This feature is intended for use online. It is not available while users are offline.
- This feature was evaluated using English. At this time, use of the of the feature in any other language is unsupported.
- The system will generate a summary based on the data the user who invoked the summary can see and based on the data that exists within the system. If the user is missing critical permissions, the summary may be of low value. Similarly, if the data in the system is of poor quality, the summary may be of low value. The output of the summary will be based on the value of the inputs.

## What operational factors and settings allow for effective and responsible use of the system?

- While this feature is in preview and only available for environments within the United States and the United Kingdom, the feature can be enabled or disabled for a given environment by an administrator within Field Service Settings.
- While the prompt and contextual data provided within the prompt cannot but customized at this time, the feature will respect:
  - Personalization settings for date/time format and time zone. This will ensure time related outputs reflect the date/time and time zone settings of a given user. 
  - Environment specific table and field labels for the contextual information passed in as part of the prompt for a given work order. This should allow a response to reflect the labels of the data within a given environment rather than the display labels defined in the default solution.

## See also

- [Work order recap with copilot](work-order-recap.md)
- [Transparency notes for Dynamics 365 Field Service](transparency-note.md)

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

Added name of setting to toggle and public preview info

ce/field-service/transparency-note-work-order-recap.md, after:

---
title: Transparency note for work order recap with copilot (preview)
description: This transparency note provides information about the AI technology used in the work order recap feature.
ms.date: 07/10/2023
ms.custom: 
  - transparency-note
ms.topic: article
author: m-hartmann
ms.author: mhart
ms.reviewer: jacohen
---

# Transparency note for work order recap with copilot (preview)

This transparency note describes the AI impact of the Dynamics 365 Field Service work order recap (preview) feature.

## What is work order recap?

The AI-Powered work order recap feature provides a succinct, status-relevant summary of a work order and its related contextual data. This feature is designed to help service managers, dispatchers, and frontline workers quickly understand the current state of a work order, including many aspects of its past developments, future actions, arrival times, work criticality, and parts used or to be used.

## What are the system’s capabilities?

The system uses the requesting user's security context to pull relevant data based on the status of the work order to create the recap. Assuming the data is present on the record, the recap includes a summary of the work order, booking details, activities, notes, products, services, and service tasks involved in the work order. Additional information, such as requirement characteristics, asset details, and invoice information, may be included based on the work order's current system status.

## What is the system’s intended use?

As a work order progresses through its lifecycle, the work order recap provides a contextually relevant summary tailored to the status of the work order. It aims to provide a high-level recap which can be quickly consumed by a user which may help them determine what about the given record requires deeper investigation. This feature uses AI to generate a brief summary and is not intended to be a replacement for thorough investigation of each work order and relevant related information.

## How was work order recap with copilot evaluated? What metrics are used to measure performance?

- This feature was evaluated using English. It is currently available only in English (en-us).
- The recap was tested to evaluate prompt accuracy and performance. Responses are expected to be limited to the context provided from the work order.
  - During testing, the quality of the content is heavily influenced by the quality of the data in the system.
  - No content fabrication was observed during testing; however, there were some instances observed of inaccurate summarization of the data shared within the prompt.

## What are the limitations of work order recap with copilot? How can users minimize the impact of the limitations when using the system?

- This feature is currently in preview.
  - Users are encouraged to provide feedback on the quality of the content using the like/dislike icon buttons within the feature's control.
- This feature is intended for use online. It is not available while users are offline.
- This feature was evaluated using English. It is currently available only in English (en-us).
- The system generates a summary based on the data the user who invoked the summary can see and based on the data that exists within the system. If the user is missing critical permissions, the summary may be of low value. Similarly, if the data in the system is of poor quality, the summary may be of low value. The output of the summary is based on the value of the inputs.

## What operational factors and settings allow for effective and responsible use of the system?

- While this feature is in preview and only available for environments within the United States and the United Kingdom, the feature can be enabled or disabled for a given environment by an administrator through the Field Service **Settings**, **Copilot Recap** toggle.
- While the prompt and contextual data provided within the prompt cannot be customized at this time, the feature respects:
  - Personalization settings for date/time format and time zone to ensure time related outputs reflect the date/time and time zone settings of a given user.
  - Environment specific table and field labels for the contextual information passed in as part of the prompt for a given work order. The response should reflect the labels of the data within a given environment rather than the display labels defined in the default solution.

## See also

- [Work order recap with copilot](work-order-recap.md)
- [Transparency notes for Dynamics 365 Field Service](transparency-note.md)

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
