ce/marketing/real-time-marketing-preference-centers.md, before:

---
title: Create branded, customized preference centers to manage customer consent
description: Learn how to set up preference centers to collect and manage consent from your customers.
ms.date: 05/08/2023
ms.custom: 
  - dyn365-marketing
ms.topic: reference
author: alfergus
ms.author: alfergus
search.audienceType: 
  - admin
  - customizer
  - enduser
---

# Real-time marketing preference centers

Preference centers in real-time marketing allow you to provide customers with branded experiences to sign up for communications and fine-tune their preferences to ensure they receive the right communications.

## Creating preference centers

In real-time marketing, each compliance profile starts with a default preference center that you can configure. To setup the preference center, go to **Settings** > **Customer engagement** > **Compliance profiles** and select the compliance profile with the preference center to update. Follow the link to the preference center to make updates.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Compliance profile screenshot.](media/real-time-marketing-compliance-profile.png "Compliance profile screenshot")

> [!NOTE]
> Customers who have used real-time marketing preference pages prior to the introduction of the preference center will have a compliance profile already created with the previously configured preference page in place of a preference center. There is no change to those existing preference pages.

The default preference center includes options for users to opt in or opt-out of the **Commercial** and **Tracking** purposes, as well as the default contact point of the user’s email address. You can update how the purposes capture consent in various ways to ensure you capture consent appropriately:

- Update the contact point(s) for which consent is captured
- Update the page directly to change the text displayed for each purpose to make it clear to the user
- Change whether checking the box opts the user in or out of communications
- Add or remove a purposes so the preference center collects the right information
- Add topics to the form to capture more granular preferences

:::image type="content" source="media/real-time-marketing-preference-center.png" alt-text="Preference center screenshot." lightbox="media/real-time-marketing-preference-center.png":::

In addition, you can add content and update the branding and styling of the page to make the experience seamless for your users.

### See also

[Work with data protection and GDPR](gdpr.md)
[Use GDPR features](gdpr-use-features.md)

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

Updates for GA of Consent features
Removed preview docs, updated images, removed preview language, and expanded on use cases and features.

ce/marketing/real-time-marketing-preference-centers.md, after:

---
title: Create branded, customized preference centers to manage customer consent
description: Learn how to set up preference centers to collect and manage consent from your customers.
ms.date: 05/08/2023
ms.custom: 
  - dyn365-marketing
ms.topic: reference
author: alfergus
ms.author: alfergus
search.audienceType: 
  - admin
  - customizer
  - enduser
---

# Real-time marketing preference centers

Preference centers in real-time marketing allow you to provide customers with branded experiences to sign up for communications and fine-tune their preferences to ensure they receive the right communications.

## Creating preference centers

In real-time marketing, each compliance profile starts with a default preference center that you can configure. To setup the preference center, go to **Settings** > **Customer engagement** > **Compliance profiles** and select the compliance profile with the preference center to update. Follow the link to the preference center to make updates.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Compliance profile screenshot.](media/real-time-marketing-compliance-profile.png "Compliance profile screenshot")

> [!NOTE]
> Customers who have used real-time marketing preference pages prior to the introduction of the preference center will have a compliance profile already created with the previously configured preference page in place of a preference center. There is no change to those existing preference pages.

The default preference center includes options for users to opt in or opt-out of the **Commercial** and **Tracking** purposes, as well as the default contact point of the user’s email address. You can update how the purposes capture consent in various ways to ensure you capture consent appropriately:

- Update the contact point(s) for which consent is captured
- Update the page directly to change the text displayed for each purpose to make it clear to the user
- Change whether checking the box opts the user in or out of communications
- Add or remove a purposes so the preference center collects the right information
- Add topics to the form to capture more granular preferences

:::image type="content" source="media/real-time-marketing-preference-center.png" alt-text="Preference center screenshot." lightbox="media/real-time-marketing-preference-center.png":::

In addition, you can add content and update the branding and styling of the page to make the experience seamless for your users.

### See also

[Manage user compliance settings in real-time marketing](real-time-marketing-compliance-settings.md)
[Manage consent for email and text messages in real-time marketing](real-time-marketing-email-text-consent.md)
[Outbound marketing compliance settings](privacy-use-features.md)

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
