ce/marketing/real-time-marketing-email.md, before:

---
title: "Create real-time marketing emails (Dynamics 365 Marketing) | Microsoft Docs"
description: "Learn how to create real-time marketing emails in Dynamics 365 Marketing."
ms.date: 04/04/2023
ms.custom: 
  - dyn365-marketing
ms.topic: article
author: alfergus
ms.author: alfergus
search.audienceType: 
  - admin
  - customizer
  - enduser
---

# Create real-time marketing emails

The real-time marketing email editor shares much of its look and feel with the [outbound marketing email editor](prepare-marketing-emails.md). As with the outbound marketing email editor, the real-time marketing editor allows you to quickly create personalized emails to capture your customers' attention.

Learn more about creating email in Dynamics 365 Marketing: [Create a new email and design its content](email-design.md)

## Features unique to the real-time marketing email editor

In addition to the standard email editor features, the real-time marketing email editor includes unique personalization capabilities and AI-driven image suggestions.

### Powerful email personalization

The real-time marketing email editor has a new assist edit control to bind personalized data. Use personalized data to dynamically populate information that is unique to each email recipient.

#### Add personalized data to a real-time marketing email

1. Create a placeholder by adding a text field and then selecting the **Personalization** button ![Personalization button.](media/real-time-marketing-personalization.png "Personalization button") in the toolbar.
1. Select **Select a data field** to choose a data source. Your data source can be based on an **Audience**, a **Trigger**, or **Compliance**.
1. After choosing the data source, you can search for the specific attribute or trigger you're looking for.
1. Add a **Label** to quickly identify your dynamic text in the message content.
1. Personalized dynamic text is highlighted in the content designer.
1. You can see and edit all your dynamic text in the **Personalize** tab in the **Toolbox**.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Email editor screenshot.](media/real-time-marketing-email-editor.png "Email editor screenshot")

### Link to documents and videos stored in the asset library

Add feature-rich links to emails by directly linking to documents stored in the asset library. To link to a document or video:

1. Add some text, a button, or an image to a real-time marketing email.
1. In the button or image editing pane (or in the text link dialog), select the **Link to** dropdown then select **File download**.
1. To link to a document in the image library, select **Choose a file** then select **Browse library** and choose your file.
1. Alternatively, you can upload a new file to link to by selecting **Upload to library**.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![File select screenshot.](media/real-time-marketing-email-file-link.png "File select screenshot")

### Link to surveys, events, marketing pages, Microsoft Teams events, or calendar items

Using text, images, or buttons in the real-time marketing email editor, you can link to surveys, events, or marketing pages. You can also create text, button, or image links that allow recipients to join a Microsoft Teams event or that create a new calendar item.

  > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
  > ![Screenshot of link options for real-time marketing email.](media/real-time-marketing-email-button2.png "Screenshot of link options for real-time marketing email")

The **Link to** dropdown allows the following options for Teams check-ins and calendar items:

- **Teams check-in**: Select a specific Teams event or session that your button or image should link to.
- **Add to Calendar**: Link to an iCalendar file. Choose the information you want to include in the iCalendar file using the **What should be added to calendar** dropdown. The options include:
    - **Only the event**: The iCalendar file contains only the event the contact has registered for.
    - **Event and sessions registered**: The file contains information for the event and the sessions the contact has registered for.
    - **Only sessions registered**: The file contains only the event sessions the contact has registered for.

## Preview and test your email

Before sending emails to a large number of recipients, it's important to test the email with sample audience members to ensure that the content, layout, and design are displayed correctly. This can be easily accomplished using the **Preview and Test** tab in the email designer tool. In the **Preview and Test** tab, you can select a sample audience member (for example, a Contact or Lead) record and preview the exact content that will be delivered to that recipient. The preview includes dynamically generated content based on the selected audience member data, providing a realistic preview of what the recipient will see.

To see preview for a specific audience member:

1. In the email designer, go to the **Preview and test** tab and select **Edit sample data**.
1. In the **Audience data** side pane, select a sample audience member.
1. To verify that default values for all dynamic text are set up correctly, don't select any audience member record. The preview will show the default values.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![better preview and test](media/real-time-marketing-better-preview-and-test.png "better preview and test")

> [!NOTE]
> For dynamic text that is not bound to the audience, you can enter sample values to see how the content will look.

You can send the preview email to yourself or another test email address to verify how the received email renders on different devices and different email apps. Preview emails automatically include “[Test]” in the subject header.

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

Updates for GA of Consent features
Removed preview docs, updated images, removed preview language, and expanded on use cases and features.

ce/marketing/real-time-marketing-email.md, after:

---
title: "Create real-time marketing emails (Dynamics 365 Marketing) | Microsoft Docs"
description: "Learn how to create real-time marketing emails in Dynamics 365 Marketing."
ms.date: 04/04/2023
ms.custom: 
  - dyn365-marketing
ms.topic: article
author: alfergus
ms.author: alfergus
search.audienceType: 
  - admin
  - customizer
  - enduser
---

# Create real-time marketing emails

The real-time marketing email editor shares much of its look and feel with the [outbound marketing email editor](prepare-marketing-emails.md). As with the outbound marketing email editor, the real-time marketing editor allows you to quickly create personalized emails to capture your customers' attention.

Learn more about creating email in Dynamics 365 Marketing: [Create a new email and design its content](email-design.md)

## Features unique to the real-time marketing email editor

In addition to the standard email editor features, the real-time marketing email editor includes unique personalization capabilities and AI-driven image suggestions.

### Powerful email personalization

The real-time marketing email editor has a new assist edit control to bind personalized data. Use personalized data to dynamically populate information that is unique to each email recipient.

#### Add personalized data to a real-time marketing email

1. Create a placeholder by adding a text field and then selecting the **Personalization** button ![Personalization button.](media/real-time-marketing-personalization.png "Personalization button") in the toolbar.
1. Select **Select a data field** to choose a data source. Your data source can be based on an **Audience**, a **Trigger**, or **Compliance**.
1. After choosing the data source, you can search for the specific attribute or trigger you're looking for.
1. Add a **Label** to quickly identify your dynamic text in the message content.
1. Personalized dynamic text is highlighted in the content designer.
1. You can see and edit all your dynamic text in the **Personalize** tab in the **Toolbox**.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Email editor screenshot.](media/real-time-marketing-email-editor.png "Email editor screenshot")

### Link to documents and videos stored in the asset library

Add feature-rich links to emails by directly linking to documents stored in the asset library. To link to a document or video:

1. Add some text, a button, or an image to a real-time marketing email.
1. In the button or image editing pane (or in the text link dialog), select the **Link to** dropdown then select **File download**.
1. To link to a document in the image library, select **Choose a file** then select **Browse library** and choose your file.
1. Alternatively, you can upload a new file to link to by selecting **Upload to library**.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![File select screenshot.](media/real-time-marketing-email-file-link.png "File select screenshot")

### Link to surveys, events, marketing pages, Microsoft Teams events, or calendar items

Using text, images, or buttons in the real-time marketing email editor, you can link to surveys, events, or marketing pages. You can also create text, button, or image links that allow recipients to join a Microsoft Teams event or that create a new calendar item.

  > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
  > ![Screenshot of link options for real-time marketing email.](media/real-time-marketing-email-button2.png "Screenshot of link options for real-time marketing email")

The **Link to** dropdown allows the following options for Teams check-ins and calendar items:

- **Teams check-in**: Select a specific Teams event or session that your button or image should link to.
- **Add to Calendar**: Link to an iCalendar file. Choose the information you want to include in the iCalendar file using the **What should be added to calendar** dropdown. The options include:
    - **Only the event**: The iCalendar file contains only the event the contact has registered for.
    - **Event and sessions registered**: The file contains information for the event and the sessions the contact has registered for.
    - **Only sessions registered**: The file contains only the event sessions the contact has registered for.

### Select a Compliance profile, Purpose, and Topic for the message

Within the Compliance section of the email settings, you need to choose a Compliance profile and Purpose for the email. This ensures that consent checks are performed as required by the Compliance profile and Purpose's enforcement model. Optionally, you can choose a Topic for the email, which allows you to collect more granular consent data to enable your customers to receive exactly the communications they want. [Learn more about Real-time marketing consent settings.](real-time-marketing-email-and-text-consent.md)

## Preview and test your email

Before sending emails to a large number of recipients, it's important to test the email with sample audience members to ensure that the content, layout, and design are displayed correctly. This can be easily accomplished using the **Preview and Test** tab in the email designer tool. In the **Preview and Test** tab, you can select a sample audience member (for example, a Contact or Lead) record and preview the exact content that will be delivered to that recipient. The preview includes dynamically generated content based on the selected audience member data, providing a realistic preview of what the recipient will see.

To see preview for a specific audience member:

1. In the email designer, go to the **Preview and test** tab and select **Edit sample data**.
1. In the **Audience data** side pane, select a sample audience member.
1. To verify that default values for all dynamic text are set up correctly, don't select any audience member record. The preview will show the default values.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![better preview and test](media/real-time-marketing-better-preview-and-test.png "better preview and test")

> [!NOTE]
> For dynamic text that is not bound to the audience, you can enter sample values to see how the content will look.

You can send the preview email to yourself or another test email address to verify how the received email renders on different devices and different email apps. Preview emails automatically include “[Test]” in the subject header.

### See also

[Grow your business with multi-brand, custom preference centers](real-time-marketing-compliance-settings.md)

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
