ce/marketing/real-time-marketing-outbound-subscription.md, before:

---
title: "Use outbound subscription centers in real-time journeys (Dynamics 365 Marketing) | Microsoft Docs"
description: "Learn how to use outbound marketing subscription centers in real-time journeys in Dynamics 365 Marketing."
ms.date: 05/08/2023
ms.custom: 
  - dyn365-marketing
ms.topic: article
author: alfergus
ms.author: alfergus
search.audienceType: 
  - admin
  - customizer
  - enduser
---

# Use outbound subscription centers in real-time journeys

This article explains how to use outbound marketing subscription centers in real-time journeys. Outbound subscription centers give you consent management flexibility, enabling you to have multiple subscription centers customized and branded to your needs.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> You can only use subscription centers in real-time journeys that target contacts. Journeys that target leads or customer profiles will continue to use the default preference page.

## Prerequisites

To use outbound subscription centers in real-time marketing, you must first create at least one subscription center in outbound marketing. You also need to make sure the configurable compliance settings feature switch is enabled.

### Create subscription centers in outbound marketing

If you haven’t already, [create your subscription centers](set-up-subscription-center.md) in outbound marketing.

### Enable configurable compliance settings

Before you can use subscription centers in real-time journeys, you must enable configurable compliance settings:

1. Go to **Settings** > **Other settings** > **Feature switches**.
1. Turn on the **Configurable compliance settings in email editor** feature switch.

> [!NOTE]
> If you enabled the "Multi-brand consent and customizable preference centers (preview)" feature switch, the "Configurable compliance settings" feature switch does not need to be enabled to create and leverage multiple compliance profiles.

## Set up subscription centers in real-time marketing

In **Settings**, connect the outbound marketing subscription center to real-time marketing compliance settings:

1. Go to **Settings** > **Customer engagement** > **Compliance**.
1. Select **+ New setting** in the top toolbar, then select **+ With subscription center** from the dropdown.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![Screenshot of the new settings dropdown.](media/outbound-subscription-dropdown.png "Screenshot of the new settings dropdown")

1. A pane titled "Quick Create: Compliance" will appear. Fill out the following settings:
    1. **Setting name**: Select a meaningful name that will be easy to identify.
    1. **Company address**: The address that is used in the email footer.
    1. **Consent model**:
        - *Restrictive*: If consent isn't specified, assume it isn't allowed.
        - *Non-restrictive*: If consent isn't specified, assume it's allowed.
    1. **Tracking consent**: Enable this option to get tracking consent from customers.
    1. **Select a subscription center**: Select the subscription center you set up in outbound marketing.

        > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
        > ![Screenshot of the quick create pane.](media/outbound-subscription-quick-create.png "Screenshot of the quick create pane")

    1. Select **Save and close**.

## Use a subscription center in a real-time marketing email

Now you can use the subscription center you've set up in a real-time marketing email. To do so, follow the steps below.

1. Open or create a new email message in the real-time marketing email editor.
1. Select the email header and go to **Email Settings** in the right pane.
1. Under **Compliance**, select the subscription center you set up in the "Quick Create: Compliance" settings in the previous step.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![Screenshot of selecting the subscription center under Compliance.](media/outbound-subscription-compliance-select.png "Screenshot of selecting the subscription center under Compliance")

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

Updates for GA of Consent features
Removed preview docs, updated images, removed preview language, and expanded on use cases and features.

ce/marketing/real-time-marketing-outbound-subscription.md, after:

---
title: "Use outbound subscription centers in real-time journeys (Dynamics 365 Marketing) | Microsoft Docs"
description: "Learn how to use outbound marketing subscription centers in real-time journeys in Dynamics 365 Marketing."
ms.date: 05/08/2023
ms.custom: 
  - dyn365-marketing
ms.topic: article
author: alfergus
ms.author: alfergus
search.audienceType: 
  - admin
  - customizer
  - enduser
---

# Use outbound subscription centers in real-time journeys

This article explains how to use outbound marketing subscription centers in real-time journeys. Outbound subscription centers give you consent management flexibility, enabling you to have multiple subscription centers customized and branded to your needs.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> You can only use subscription centers in real-time journeys that target contacts. Journeys that target leads or customer profiles will continue to use the default preference page.

> [!NOTE]
> Real-time marketing has introduced a new Compliance profile type of Preference center that works natively with Contact point-based consent in Real-time marketing. Preference centers offer improved functionality, such as more customizable forms and the ability to update text message consent. Learn more about [Real-time marketing compliance profiles](real-time-marketing-compliance-settings.md) and [Preference centers](real-time-marketing-preference-centers.md).  

## Prerequisites

To use outbound subscription centers in real-time marketing, you must first create at least one subscription center in outbound marketing. You also need to make sure the configurable compliance settings feature switch is enabled.

### Create subscription centers in outbound marketing

If you haven’t already, [create your subscription centers](set-up-subscription-center.md) in outbound marketing.

## Set up subscription centers in real-time marketing

In **Settings**, connect the outbound marketing subscription center to real-time marketing compliance settings:

1. Go to **Settings** > **Customer engagement** > **Compliance**.
1. Select **+ New setting** in the top toolbar, then select **+ With subscription center** from the dropdown.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![Screenshot of the new settings dropdown.](media/outbound-subscription-dropdown.png "Screenshot of the new settings dropdown")

1. A pane titled "Quick Create: Compliance" will appear. Fill out the following settings:
    1. **Setting name**: Select a meaningful name that will be easy to identify.
    1. **Company address**: The address that is used in the email footer.
    1. **Consent model**:
        - *Restrictive*: If consent isn't specified, assume it isn't allowed.
        - *Non-restrictive*: If consent isn't specified, assume it's allowed.
    1. **Tracking consent**: Enable this option to get tracking consent from customers.
    1. **Select a subscription center**: Select the subscription center you set up in outbound marketing.

        > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
        > ![Screenshot of the quick create pane.](media/outbound-subscription-quick-create.png "Screenshot of the quick create pane")

    1. Select **Save and close**.

## Use a subscription center in a real-time marketing email

Now you can use the subscription center you've set up in a real-time marketing email. To do so, follow the steps below.

1. Open or create a new email message in the real-time marketing email editor.
1. Select the email header and go to **Email Settings** in the right pane.
1. Under **Compliance**, select the Compliance profile with the Subscription center you set up in the "Quick Create: Compliance" settings in the previous step.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![Screenshot of selecting the subscription center under Compliance.](media/outbound-subscription-compliance-select.png "Screenshot of selecting the subscription center under Compliance")

### See also

[Outbound marketing compliance settings](privacy-use-features.md)
[Manage user compliance settings in real-time marketing](real-time-marketing-compliance-settings.md)
[Manage consent for email and text messages in real-time marketing](real-time-marketing-email-text-consent.md)

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
