---
title: Apps for Power Platform Terms of Use 
author: MSFTMan
---

# Apps for Power Platform<br>Terms of Use 

These terms of use are an agreement between you and the App Provider. Please
read them. They apply to the add-in, connector, or other software application
for use with the o Platform that you download or install from AppSource or
acquire from within the settings of the Power Platform (the “App”), including
any updates or supplements for the App, unless the App comes with separate
terms, in which case those terms apply.

**BY DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING, OR USING THE APP, OR ATTEMPTING TO DO ANY OF
THESE, YOU ACCEPT THESE TERMS. IF YOU DO NOT ACCEPT THEM, YOU HAVE NO RIGHT TO
AND MUST NOT DOWNLOAD, INSTALL, OR USE THE APP.**

>   **Except for the above, if the App enables access to any Internet-based
>   services, your use of those services will be subject to the
>   separately-provided terms of use.**

**In this agreement “App Provider” means the entity licensing the App to you, as
identified in AppSource or the App’s description. If the App is licensed to you
by Microsoft, then the App Provider is Microsoft (or based on where you live,
one of its affiliates).**

**If you comply with these terms of use, you have the rights below.**

**1. INSTALLATION AND USE RIGHTS.**

a. You may install and use the App with your Power Platform cloud service
subscription. You may not install or use a copy of the App with a Power Platform
cloud service subscription you do not own or control.

b. This App is a sample and may be used with the Microsoft Power Platform for
dissemination of reference information only. This App is not intended or made
available for use as a medical device, clinical support, diagnostic tool, or
other technology intended to be used in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation,
treatment, or prevention of disease or other conditions, and no license or right
is granted by Microsoft to use this App for such purposes. This app is not
designed or intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice,
diagnosis, treatment, or judgment and should not be used as such. You bear the
sole risk and responsibility for any use of this App. Microsoft does not warrant
that the App or any materials provided in connection therewith will be
sufficient for any medical purposes or meet the health or medical requirements
of any person.

Sample data included in this app are for illustration only and are fictitious.
No real association is intended or inferred.

**2. INTERNET-BASED SERVICES.** The App Provider may provide Internet-based
services with the App. In addition to the following, your use of those services
is subject to the terms provided to you by the App Provider and/or your wireless
carrier.

**a. Consent for Internet-Based or Wireless Services.** The App connects to
computer systems over an Internet-based or wireless network. In some cases, you
will not receive a separate notice when they connect. Using the App operates as
your consent to the transmission of standard device information (including but
not limited to technical information about your device, system and App software,
and peripherals) for Internet-based or wireless services.

**b. Misuse of Internet-based Services.** You may not use any Internet-based
service in any way that could harm it or impair anyone else’s use of it or the
wireless network. You may not use any Internet-based service to try to gain
unauthorized access to any service, data, account or network by any means.

**3. SCOPE OF LICENSE.** The App is licensed, not sold. This agreement only
gives you some rights to use the App. The App Provider reserves all other
rights. Unless the law gives you more rights despite this limitation, you may
use the App only as expressly permitted in this agreement. In doing so, you must
comply with any technical limitations in the App that only allow you to use it
in certain ways. You may not

• work around any technical limitations in the App;

• reverse engineer, decompile or disassemble the App, except and only to the
extent that applicable law expressly permits, despite this limitation;

• make more copies of the App than specified in this agreement or allowed by
applicable law, despite this limitation; or

• publish or otherwise make the App available for others to copy or use; or
transfer, rent, lease, or lend the App.

**4. ACCEPTABLE USE.** Neither you nor those that access the App through you may
use the App:

• in a way prohibited by law, regulation, governmental order, or decree;

• to violate the rights of others;

• to try to gain unauthorized access to or disrupt any service, device, data,
account, or network;

• to spam or distribute malware;

• in a way that could harm the App or impair anyone else’s use of it; or

• in any application or situation where failure of the App could lead to the
death or serious bodily injury of any person, or to severe physical or
environmental damage.

**5. PREVIEWS.** The App Provider may offer preview, beta or other pre-release
features and versions of the App ("Previews"). Previews may employ lesser or
different privacy and security measures. Unless otherwise provided, Previews are
not included in customer support or service level agreements. The App Provider
may change or discontinue Previews at any time without notice. The App Provider
also may choose not to release a Preview as a "General Availability" commercial
release.

**6. DOCUMENTATION.** If documentation is provided with the App, you may copy
and use the documentation solely for your reference purposes.

**7. TECHNOLOGY AND EXPORT RESTRICTIONS.** The App may be subject to United
States or international technology control or export laws and regulations. You
must comply with all domestic and international export laws and regulations that
apply to the technology used or supported by the App. These laws include
restrictions on destinations, end users and end use. For information on how
these laws and regulations apply to Microsoft branded products, see
[www.microsoft.com/exporting](https://www.microsoft.com/exporting).

**8. SUPPORT SERVICES.** The App is provided “as is.” Contact the App Provider
to determine if any support services are available. If Microsoft is the App
Provider, it may provide support services, but is not obligated to do so under
this agreement.

**9. THIRD PARTY SERVICES.** The App may allow you to access third party branded
software, data, services, websites or products (“Third Party Services”). The App
Provider and Microsoft assume no responsibility or liability whatsoever for any
Third Party Service. You are solely responsible for any Third Party Service that
you install or use with the App. Your use of any Third Party Service shall be
governed by the license, service, or privacy terms between you and the publisher
of the Third Party Service.

**10. ENTIRE AGREEMENT.** This agreement and the terms for supplements and
updates are the entire agreement between you and the App Provider for the App.
If Microsoft is the App Provider, this agreement cannot be construed to change
the terms of any other agreement you may have with Microsoft with regard to the
Microsoft Power Platform, Dynamics 365, Office, AppSource, or any other
Microsoft product or service (which are governed by the software license terms,
online services terms or other terms of use or agreement that accompanied or are
associated with the applicable Microsoft product or service).

**11. APPLICABLE LAW.**

**a. United States. If you acquired the App in the United States, Washington
state law governs this agreement, regardless of conflict of laws principles. The
laws of the state where you live govern all other claims, including claims under
state consumer protection laws, unfair competition laws, and in tort.**

**b. Outside the United States. If you acquired the App in any other country,
the laws of that country apply.**

**12. LEGAL EFFECT.** This agreement describes certain legal rights. You may
have other rights under the laws of the state or country where you reside. This
agreement does not change your rights under the laws of the state or country
where you reside if such laws do not permit it to do so.

**13. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY. THE APP IS LICENSED "AS-IS," "WITH ALL FAULTS,"
AND "AS AVAILABLE." YOU BEAR ALL RISK OF USING IT. THE APP PROVIDER, ON BEHALF
OF ITSELF, MICROSOFT, WIRELESS CARRIERS OVER WHOSE NETWORK THE APP IS
DISTRIBUTED, AND ITS AND THEIR RESPECTIVE AFFILIATES, VENDORS, AGENTS AND
SUPPLIERS (COLLECTIVELY, “DISTRIBUTORS”), GIVES NO EXPRESS WARRANTIES,
GUARANTEES, OR CONDITIONS UNDER OR IN RELATION TO THE APP. YOU MAY HAVE
ADDITIONAL CONSUMER RIGHTS UNDER YOUR LOCAL LAWS THAT THIS AGREEMENT CANNOT
CHANGE. TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED UNDER YOUR LOCAL LAWS, DISTRIBUTORS EXCLUDE ANY
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS, INCLUDING THOSE OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. YOU ACKNOWLEDGE THAT COMPUTER AND
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS ARE NOT FAULT-FREE AND OCCASIONAL PERIODS OF DOWNTIME
OCCUR. DISTRIBUTORS DO NOT GUARANTEE THE APP WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED, TIMELY,
SECURE, OR ERROR-FREE OR THAT CUSTOMER DATA LOSS WON'T OCCUR.**

**14. LIMITATION ON AND EXCLUSION OF REMEDIES AND DAMAGES. TO THE EXTENT NOT
PROHIBITED BY LAW, YOU CAN RECOVER FROM THE APP PROVIDER ONLY DIRECT DAMAGES UP
TO THE AMOUNT YOU PAID FOR THE APP OR \$5.00, WHICHEVER IS GREATER. YOU WILL
NOT, AND WAIVE ANY RIGHT TO, SEEK TO RECOVER ANY OTHER DAMAGES, INCLUDING
CONSEQUENTIAL, LOST PROFITS, SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES FROM ANY
DISTRIBUTOR.**

**This limitation applies to**

• **anything related to the App, or services made available through the App, or
content (including code) on third-party Internet sites; and**

• **claims for breach of contract, breach of warranty, guarantee or condition,
strict liability, negligence, or other tort to the extent permitted by
applicable law.**

**It also applies even if**

• **repair, replacement or a refund for the App does not fully compensate you
for any losses; or**

• **Distributor knew or should have known about the possibility of the
damages.**
