---
title: MICROSOFT DYNAMICS 365 SALES MOBILE PUBLIC PREVIEW AGREEMENT
author: ReneeW-CPub
robots: noindex,nofollow
---

# MICROSOFT DYNAMICS 365 SALES MOBILE<br>PUBLIC PREVIEW AGREEMENT

By accessing or using the Dynamics 365 Product Insights services preview
(together with any Microsoft provided data sources, the “Services”), you accept
the terms and conditions of this Agreement. If you do not accept them, do not
access or use the Services. This is an agreement between you (“you,” “your,”
“Customer,” “Participant,” or “Licensee”) and Microsoft Corporation or, based on
where you live, one of Microsoft’s affiliates (collectively “Microsoft,” “we,”
“us,” or “our”). The terms and conditions of this agreement (“Agreement”) apply
to your access and use of Services.

**1. WHAT THIS AGREEMENT COVERS**

**1.1 Definitions**

“Confidential Information” means non-public information, know-how, or trade
secrets in any form that are designated confidential or that a reasonable person
knows or reasonably should know to be confidential. Confidential Information
does not include any information, however designated, that: (i) is or becomes
publicly available without a breach of this Agreement; (ii) was lawfully known
to the receiver of the information without an obligation to keep it
confidential; (iii) is received from another source who can disclose it lawfully
and without an obligation to keep it confidential; (iv) is independently
developed; or (v) is Feedback.

“Customer Data” means all data, including all text, sound, video, or image
files, and software, that are provided to Microsoft by, or on behalf of,
Customer through Customer’s access or use of the Services.

“Feedback” means suggestions, comments, feedback, input, ideas, or know-how, in
any form.

“Microsoft Licensing Agreement” or “MLA” means the Microsoft Online Services
Terms (see http://microsoftvolumelicensing.com/) and Customer’s Microsoft volume
licensing agreement, or any other applicable agreement, under which Customer
subscribed or was granted a license to any Required Offerings.

“Services” means the preview version of Microsoft Dynamics 365 Sales Mobile
application together with any Microsoft provided data sources.

**1.2 Application**

This Agreement applies to your access and use of the Services. The Services are
optional, pre-release evaluation services offered by Microsoft to select
customers to obtain Feedback prior to general release. This Agreement does not
apply to any other Microsoft products or services.

**1.3 Required Offerings**

Certain Microsoft services or software may be necessary to use the Services
(“Required Offerings”). Microsoft does not grant any rights under this Agreement
to access or use Required Offerings. Rather, Required Offerings are separately
licensed under any respective Microsoft Licensing Agreement, and may require
paying a fee. If you are a subscriber of Dynamics 365 or other Microsoft
services, your MLA for Dynamics 365 customer agreement or other Microsoft
service agreement applies to your use of Dynamics 365 or other Microsoft
services generally. This Agreement applies to your use of the Services
specifically.

**2. THE SERVICES**

**2.1. Pre-Release Services and Updates.**

You acknowledge that:

**(i)** The Services provided under this Agreement are in a pre-release stage
and are only available for a limited time. **(ii)** The Services may not work
correctly or the way a commercial version of the Services may function.
**(iii)** The Services may experience interruptions and extended downtime during
which you may not be able to access the Services, your Customer Data, or other
functionality, and in the event of an outage or interruption that Microsoft
determines may cause risk to the Services, Microsoft may determine in its sole
discretion to suspend the Services. **(iv)** Microsoft may (but is not obligated
to) provide updated versions of the Services, including without limitation
downloading updated software to Customer’s devices, and such updates may result
in the deletion of Customer Data or changes to functionality of the Services.
**(v)** In general, due to the pre-release nature of the Services, some or all
of your Customer Data may be lost. **(vi)** Microsoft does not guarantee that
your Customer Data will be successfully migrated from the Services to any future
pre-release or commercial versions that may be released. **(vii)** Microsoft may
choose not to make the Services generally available. **(viii)** You are solely
responsible for determining the appropriateness of using the Services and assume
all risks associated with using the Services, including but not limited to risks
and costs of program errors, compliance with applicable laws, damage to or loss
of Customer Data, programs or equipment, and unavailability or interruption of
operations. **(ix)** Your use of “live” or production Customer Data, Personal
Data (defined below), or other data that is subject to legal, regulatory, or
heightened compliance requirements is at your sole risk.

**2.2. Future Releases.**

Microsoft may change, rebrand, or suspend the Services at any time, including
without limitation for a future pre-release or commercial version, and we may
not release a future pre-release or commercial version.

**2.3. Pre-release Limitations.**

Because of their pre-release status, the Services may employ lesser or different
privacy, security, and compliance measures than those typically present in a
Microsoft enterprise online service. You may not use the Services to process
data that is subject to heightened compliance requirements, including without
limitation protected health information in the United States. Except as required
by applicable laws, Microsoft has no obligation to retain, store, export, or
return any Customer Data in relation to the Services.

**2.4. Access and Use Rights.**

Subject to the terms of this Agreement, and the policies and procedures we
designate for use of the Services, Microsoft grants you a non-exclusive,
non-transferable, non-sublicensable and limited right to access and use the
Services only through the means we designate and solely for the purpose of
evaluating the Services and providing Feedback to Microsoft.

**2.5. Restrictions.**

In using the Services, you may not access or use the Services:

>   • to design or build a competitive service or to otherwise copy the design,
>   functionality or user interfaces within the Services;
>
>   • to reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble or work around any technical
>   limitations in the Services that only allow you to use it in certain ways;
>
>   • to share, publish, rent, lease, lend, sell or transfer the Services to any
>   third party; or for commercial hosting services;
>
>   • in a way prohibited by law, regulation, governmental order or decree;
>
>   • to violate the rights of others;
>
>   • to try to gain unauthorized access to or disrupt any service, device,
>   data, account or network;
>
>   • to spam or distribute malware;
>
>   • in a way that could harm the Services or impair anyone else’s use of it;
>   or
>
>   • in any application or situation where failure of the Service could lead to
>   the death or serious bodily injury of any person, or to severe physical or
>   environmental damage.

If you are using the Services in a shared or sandbox environment with other
users who do not belong to your organization, you may not interfere with the use
of the environment by other users and you may not access, delete, or modify any
data, software, information or other materials placed in the environment by
other users.

**3. DATA**

“GDPR” means Regulation 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council
on the protection of natural persons with regard to the Processing of Personal
Data and on the free movement of such data. The terms “Personal Data,” “Data
Subject,” “Controller,” “Personal Data Breach,” “Processor,” “Processing,” and
“Supervisory Authority” have meaning as defined in the GDPR or other applicable
law. “Subprocessor” means a Processor appointed by another Processor.

**3.1 Your Responsibility.**

You bear sole responsibility for any and all Customer Data, and any software
programs or services you use in connection with your access to or use of the
Services, including without limitation taking the steps necessary to back up
such Customer Data, software programs or services.

**3.2 Processing of Personal Data; GDPR.**

To the extent Microsoft is a Processor or Subprocessor of Personal Data in
connection with the Services, the commitments in Exhibit A apply. You agree that
your Customer Data may be transferred, stored and Processed in the United States
or any other country in which Microsoft or its affiliates, subsidiaries or
service providers maintain facilities. Customer hereby instructs Microsoft to
Process Customer Data to provide the Services and for purposes compatible with
providing the Services. To the extent Microsoft Processes Personal Data on
behalf of Customer with respect to Customer Data, Microsoft will Process such
Customer Data only on the documented instructions of Customer as set forth in
this Agreement and in Customer’s authorized use and configuration of the
Services.

The parties acknowledge and agree that:

>   • the subject-matter of the Processing is limited to Personal Data within
>   the scope of the GDPR;
>
>   • the duration of the Processing will be for the duration of the Customer’s
>   right to use the Services and until all Personal Data is deleted or returned
>   in accordance with Customer instructions or the terms of this Agreement;
>
>   • the nature and purpose of the Processing will be to provide the Services
>   pursuant to this Agreement; and
>
>   • the types of Personal Data Processed by the Services include those
>   expressly identified in Article 4 of the GDPR.

**4. PROPRIETARY RIGHTS.**

**4.1. Reservation of Rights; No Other License.**

Except for your limited use and access rights to the Services as set forth in
this Agreement, Microsoft reserves all other rights not expressly granted in
this Agreement. No additional rights (including without limitation implied
licenses, rights or covenants) are granted by implication, estoppel or
otherwise.

**4.2. No Claims of Ownership by Microsoft.**

Microsoft claims no ownership of or control over the Customer Data you provide
to us in connection with your use of the Services. It is solely your
responsibility to protect any rights you may have in the Customer Data and such
information.

**4.3. Customer Data.**

You represent, and agree to ensure, that you have the necessary rights to any
Customer Data, including Personal Data, software programs or services that you
use in connection with the Services, and that such activities do not infringe or
violate the intellectual property, personal or other proprietary rights of any
third party. You agree to obtain all necessary rights, and comply with all
licenses or other terms, from the rightful owner of such Customer Data, software
programs or services that you do not own. You agree to access or use the
Services (a) without purporting to subject Microsoft to any other obligations to
you or any third party, and (b) solely in a manner that complies with all
applicable laws and regulations.

Unless expressly noted, Customer will own any enrichments to the Customer Data.
Unless the Services or documentation for the Services expressly prohibits doing
so, Customer may export enriched data from the Services. Customer is solely
responsible for ensuring that any system receiving such data complies with
Customer’s legal obligations relating to that data.

Microsoft will solely own any enhancements or improvements to the Services
arising from your access to and use of Customer Data and the Services. Microsoft
may also use information derived from Customer Data if such use does not include
Customer Data and no Customer Data can be reverse engineered from such use.

**4.4. Confidentiality.**

The Services, including their user interface, features, documentation, and
output, are confidential and proprietary to Microsoft and its suppliers. This
and all other information shared under this Agreement is Confidential
Information subject to the nondisclosure agreement between you and Microsoft
(“NDA”). In the event there is no existing NDA, or if such existing NDA is
terminated or otherwise ceases to be in effect, then the remainder of this
section applies. For 5 years after the date of disclosure, neither party will
disclose the other’s Confidential Information to third parties. Each party may
disclose the other’s Confidential Information only to its affiliates, employees,
and contractors only on a need-to-know basis. Each party must have written
agreements with them that protect the Confidential Information at least as much
as this Agreement. Each party may disclose the other’s Confidential Information
in response to a judicial or governmental order, but must first give written
notice to the other party to allow it to seek a protective order or otherwise
protect the information. Each party’s duty to protect the other’s Confidential
Information survives expiration or termination of this Agreement.

**5. NO SUPPORT**

We have no obligation to provide any support services for the Services. The
Services may be inaccessible due to scheduled and unscheduled reasons, including
maintenance updates, power outages, system failures, extended downtime and other
interruptions. During such periods, you may be unable to access or use all of,
or a portion of, the Services. Some or all of the Customer Data may be lost. In
the event of an outage or interruption that Microsoft determines may cause risk
to the Services, Microsoft may determine in its sole discretion to suspend the
Services.

FOR THESE REASONS, THE SERVICES ARE EXCLUDED FROM ANY COMMITMENTS MICROSOFT
MAKES IN ITS SERVICE LEVEL AGREEMENTS GENERALLY, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION
ANY COMMITMENTS MICROSOFT MAKES IN SERVICE LEVEL AGREEMENTS APPLICABLE TO
MICROSOFT POWER BI OR DYNAMICS 365.

**6. SOFTWARE**

**6.1. Scope of License.**

As part of your use of the Services, we grant you a limited right to: (a)
install and use the Microsoft software we provide for installation on your
device to use with the Services to enable certain functionality (the “Software”)
on multiple Customer computers solely to evaluate, demonstrate, prototype, and
test the Software for use in or in connection with Customer’s products and
services; and (b) reasonably copy the Software, and include applicable parts of
the Software in Customer’s programs, in each case solely in accordance with and
for the purpose in the above clause (a) (and any part of the Software merged
with another program will continue to be subject to this Agreement).

**6.2. Limitations of License.**

We reserve all other rights to such Software. You may not disassemble,
decompile, or reverse engineer any such Software included in the Services,
except and only to the extent that the law expressly permits this activity.
Notwithstanding these restrictions, you may (a) incorporate applicable binary
portions of the Software into Customer’s programs, solely as contemplated by the
documentation; or (b) creating custom events during Customer’s use of the
Software.

The Software is subject to United States export laws and regulations. You must
comply with all domestic and international export laws and regulations that
apply to the Software. These laws include restrictions on destinations, end
users and end use. For additional information, see <http://aka.ms/exporting>.

Unless we notify you otherwise, your license to use the Software provided by us
as part of the Services will end when your right to use the Services ends, and
you must promptly uninstall the Software. We may disable the Software at this
time.

**7. FEEDBACK**

If you give Feedback about the Services to Microsoft, you give to Microsoft,
without charge, the right to use, share, and commercialize your Feedback in any
way and for any purpose. You also give to third parties, without charge, any
intellectual property rights needed for their products, technologies and
services to use or interface with any specific parts of a Microsoft software or
service that includes the Feedback. You will not give Feedback that is subject
to a license that requires Microsoft to license its software or documentation to
third parties because Microsoft includes your Feedback in them. These rights
survive expiration or termination of this Agreement.

**8. PUBLICITY**

In connection with your access and use of the Services, Microsoft may create
documentation, films, photographs, referrals, quotations, or other recordings or
materials (“Publicity Materials”). Any Publicity Materials will be identified in
advance and mutually agreed to, and the following provisions will apply only to
the extent the parties agree to specific Publicity Materials.

**8.1. Rights.**

You grant Microsoft the non-exclusive right to use your name, trademarks and
service marks, likeness, and logos (“Marks”) in such Publicity Materials.

**8.2. Approvals.**

You will have the right to approve, before Microsoft’s first use, any Publicity
Materials that include Marks. You will promptly review and either approve or
disapprove them (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld) within 5
business days of receipt. Failure to respond within such 5-day period will be
deemed approval. You are solely responsible for bringing to Microsoft’s
attention any factual errors and for removing your Confidential Information from
Publicity Materials.

**9. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES**

WE PROVIDE THE SERVICES AND SUPPORT SERVICES (IF ANY) "AS IS," "WITH ALL FAULTS"
AND "AS AVAILABLE." YOU BEAR ALL RISK OF USING THEM. MICROSOFT GIVES NO EXPRESS
WARRANTIES, GUARANTEES OR CONDITIONS UNDER OR IN RELATION TO THE SERVICES OR
SUPPORT SERVICES (IF ANY). TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED UNDER LOCAL LAWS, MICROSOFT
EXCLUDES ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS, INCLUDING THOSE OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. YOU
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT COMPUTER AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS ARE NOT FAULT-FREE AND
OCCASIONAL PERIODS OF DOWNTIME OCCUR. MICROSOFT DOES NOT GUARANTEE THE SERVICES
WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED, TIMELY, SECURE, OR ERROR-FREE OR THAT DATA LOSS WILL NOT
OCCUR.

**10. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY**

TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, IN NO EVENT WILL MICROSOFT BE LIABLE FOR
ANY INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE, SPECIAL, OR EXEMPLARY DAMAGES
ARISING OUT OF OR THAT RELATE IN ANY WAY TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ITS PERFORMANCE.
THIS EXCLUSION WILL APPLY REGARDLESS OF THE LEGAL THEORY UPON WHICH ANY CLAIM
FOR SUCH DAMAGES IS BASED, WHETHER MICROSOFT HAD BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY
OF SUCH DAMAGES, WHETHER SUCH DAMAGES WERE REASONABLY FORESEEABLE, OR WHETHER
APPLICATION OF THE EXCLUSION CAUSES ANY REMEDY TO FAIL OF ITS ESSENTIAL PURPOSE.
MICROSOFT’S TOTAL LIABILITY FOR ALL CLAIMS RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT
EXCEED U.S. \$5.00. THIS CAP APPLIES WHETHER THE CLAIM IS IN CONTRACT, TORT, OR
OTHERWISE.

**11. TERM; TERMINATION**

**11.1. Term.**

This Agreement is effective as of the Effective Date. This Agreement replaces
any previous agreement under which you have been using the Services or any
precursor services, including the Insider Program Agreement for use of the
Services. This Agreement will terminate on the earlier of (i) the date of first
availability of a commercial release of the Services (if ever) or (ii) the date
on which either party provides notice of termination to the other party.
Microsoft may suspend or cancel your use of and access to all or any part of the
Services, or terminate this Agreement, at any time for any reason and in its
sole discretion.

**11.2. Effect of Termination.**

Upon cancellation, suspension or any termination, your right to use the Services
stops right away and you must immediately remove your Customer Data and
applications from the Services. Upon any termination of this Agreement, all
other rights granted to you by this Agreement will also automatically terminate.

**12. MISCELLANEOUS**

**12.1. Applicable Law and Jurisdiction.**

The laws of the State of Washington govern this Agreement. If federal
jurisdiction exists, the parties consent to exclusive jurisdiction and venue in
the federal courts in King County, Washington. If not, the parties consent to
exclusive jurisdiction and venue in the Superior Court of King County,
Washington.

**12.2. Severability.**

If any court of competent jurisdiction determines that any provision of this
Agreement is illegal, invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions will
remain in full force and effect.

**12.3. No assignment.**

Customer may not assign this Agreement, or any rights or duties under it,
directly or indirectly (e.g., by merger, consolidation, reorganization, or
transfer of control), by operation of contract, law, or otherwise, except with
Microsoft’s express written consent.

**12.4. Entire Agreement.**

This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect
to its subject matter, and supersedes all prior and contemporaneous
communications (including all written or oral agreements, representations or
understandings) regarding such subject matter. Each party irrevocably and
unconditionally waives any right it may have to claim damages for, and/or to
rescind this Agreement because of a breach of any warranty not contained in this
Agreement, or any misrepresentation whether or not contained in this Agreement,
unless such misrepresentation was made fraudulently. Nothing in this clause will
exclude liability for a fraudulent misrepresentation.

**ACCEPTED:**

Signature:________________________________\_

Name: \_________________________________\_

Title: \_________________________________\_

Date: \_________________________________\_

Email for Notices: \_________________________\_

Customer: [Insert Customer name]

[Insert Customer address]

**Exhibit A – Data Protection Terms**

Processing of Customer Data; Ownership

Customer Data will be used or otherwise Processed only to provide Customer the
Services including purposes compatible with providing those services. Microsoft
will not use or otherwise Process Customer Data or derive information from it
for any advertising or similar commercial purposes. As between the parties,
Customer retains all right, title and interest in and to Customer Data.
Microsoft acquires no rights in Customer Data, other than the rights Customer
grants to Microsoft to provide the Services to Customer. This paragraph does not
affect Microsoft’s rights in software or services Microsoft licenses to
Customer.

Disclosure of Customer Data

Microsoft will not disclose Customer Data outside of Microsoft or its controlled
subsidiaries and affiliates except (1) as Customer directs, (2) as described in
this Agreement, or (3) as required by law.

Microsoft will not disclose Customer Data to law enforcement unless required by
law. If law enforcement contacts Microsoft with a demand for Customer Data,
Microsoft will attempt to redirect the law enforcement agency to request that
data directly from Customer. If compelled to disclose Customer Data to law
enforcement, Microsoft will promptly notify Customer and provide a copy of the
demand unless legally prohibited from doing so.

Upon receipt of any other third-party request for Customer Data, Microsoft will
promptly notify Customer unless prohibited by law. Microsoft will reject the
request unless required by law to comply. If the request is valid, Microsoft
will attempt to redirect the third party to request the data directly from
Customer.

Microsoft will not provide any third party: (a) direct, indirect, blanket or
unfettered access to Customer Data; (b) platform encryption keys used to secure
Customer Data or the ability to break such encryption; or (c) access to Customer
Data if Microsoft is aware that the data is to be used for purposes other than
those stated in the third party’s request.

In support of the above, Microsoft may provide Customer’s basic contact
information to the third party.

Processing of Personal Data; GDPR

Personal Data provided to Microsoft by, or on behalf of, Customer through use of
the Services is also Customer Data. Pseudonymized identifiers may also be
generated through Customer’s use of the Services and are also Personal Data.

Processor and Controller Roles and Responsibilities

Customer and Microsoft agree that Customer is the Controller of Personal Data
and Microsoft is the Processor of such data, except when Customer acts as a
Processor of Personal Data, in which case Microsoft is a Subprocessor. Microsoft
will Process Personal Data only on documented instructions from Customer.
Customer agrees that this Agreement along with Customer’s use and configuration
of features in the Services are Customer’s complete and final documented
instructions to Microsoft for the Processing of Personal Data. In any instance
where the GDPR applies and Customer is a Processor, Customer warrants to
Microsoft that Customer’s instructions, including appointment of Microsoft as a
Processor or Subprocessor, have been authorized by the relevant Controller.

Data Subject Rights; Assistance with Requests

Microsoft will make available to Customer in a manner consistent with the
functionality of the Services and Microsoft’s role as a Processor Personal Data
of data subjects and the ability to fulfill data subject requests to exercise
their rights under the GDPR. Microsoft will comply with reasonable requests by
Customer to assist with Customer’s response to such a data subject request. If
Microsoft receives a request from Customer’s data subject to exercise one or
more of its rights under the GDPR in connection with the Services, Microsoft
will redirect the data subject to make its request directly to Customer.
Customer will be responsible for responding to any such request including, where
necessary, by using the functionality of the Services. Microsoft will comply
with reasonable requests by Customer to assist with Customer’s response to such
a data subject request.

Records of Processing Activities

Microsoft will maintain all records required by Article 30(2) of the GDPR and,
to the extent applicable to the Processing of Personal Data on behalf of
Customer, make them available to Customer upon request.

Data Security

Security Practices and Policies

Microsoft will implement and maintain appropriate technical and organizational
measures to protect Customer Data and Personal Data. Those measures will be set
forth in a Microsoft Security Policy. Microsoft will make that policy available
to Customer, along with descriptions of the security controls in place for the
Services and other information reasonably requested by Customer regarding
Microsoft security practices and policies.

Customer Responsibilities

Customer is solely responsible for making an independent determination as to
whether the technical and organizational measures for a Service meets Customer’s
requirements, including any of its security obligations under the GDPR or other
applicable data protection laws and regulations. Customer acknowledges and
agrees that (taking into account the state of the art, the costs of
implementation, and the nature, scope, context and purposes of the Processing of
its Personal Data as well as the risks to individuals) the security practices
and policies implemented and maintained by Microsoft provide a level of security
appropriate to the risk with respect to its Personal Data. Customer is
responsible for implementing and maintaining privacy protections and security
measures for components that Customer provides or controls (such as devices
enrolled with Microsoft Intune or within a Microsoft Azure customer’s virtual
machine or application).

Auditing Compliance

Microsoft will conduct audits of the security of the computers, computing
environment and physical data centers that it uses in Processing Customer Data
and Personal Data, as follows:

• Where a standard or framework provides for audits, an audit of such control
standard or framework will be initiated at least annually.

• Each audit will be performed according to the standards and rules of the
regulatory or accreditation body for each applicable control standard or
framework.

• Each audit will be performed by qualified, independent, third party security
auditors at Microsoft’s selection and expense.

Each audit will result in the generation of an audit report (“Microsoft Audit
Report”), which Microsoft will make available at
https://servicetrust.microsoft.com/ or another location identified by Microsoft.
The Microsoft Audit Report will be Microsoft’s Confidential Information and will
clearly disclose any material findings by the auditor. Microsoft will promptly
remediate issues raised in any Microsoft Audit Report to the satisfaction of the
auditor.

If Customer requests, Microsoft will provide Customer with each Microsoft Audit
Report. The Microsoft Audit Report will be subject to non-disclosure and
distribution limitations of Microsoft and the auditor.

If Customer has entered into the Standard Contractual Clauses with Microsoft (as
such Clauses are defined and included in Attachment 1 below), then Customer
agrees to exercise its audit right by instructing Microsoft to execute the audit
as described herein. If Customer desires to change this instruction, then
Customer has the right to do so as set forth in the Standard Contractual
Clauses, which change will be requested in writing.

If the Standard Contractual Clauses apply, then this section is in addition to
Clause 5 paragraph f and Clause 12 paragraph 2 of the Standard Contractual
Clauses.

Nothing in this section of the Agreement varies or modifies the Standard
Contractual Clauses or affects any supervisory authority’s or data subject’s
rights under the Standard Contractual Clauses or GDPR. Microsoft Corporation is
an intended third-party beneficiary of this section.

Security Incident Notification

If Microsoft becomes aware of a breach of security leading to the accidental or
unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure of, or access to
Customer Data or Personal Data while Processed by Microsoft (each a “Security
Incident”), Microsoft will promptly and without undue delay (1) notify Customer
of the Security Incident; (2) investigate the Security Incident and provide
Customer with detailed information about the Security Incident; (3) take
reasonable steps to mitigate the effects and to minimize any damage resulting
from the Security Incident.

Notification(s) of Security Incidents will be delivered to one or more of
Customer’s administrators by any means Microsoft selects, including via email.
It is Customer’s sole responsibility to ensure Customer’s administrators
maintain accurate contact information on each applicable Services portal.
Customer is solely responsible for complying with its obligations under incident
notification laws applicable to Customer and fulfilling any third-party
notification obligations related to any Security Incident.

Microsoft will make reasonable efforts to assist Customer in fulfilling
Customer’s obligation under GDPR Article 33 or other applicable law or
regulation to notify the relevant supervisory authority and data subjects about
such Security Incident.

Microsoft’s obligation to report or respond to a Security Incident under this
section is not an acknowledgement by Microsoft of any fault or liability with
respect to the Security Incident.

Customer must notify Microsoft promptly about any possible misuse of its
accounts or authentication credentials or any security incident related to the
Services.

Data Transfers and Location

Data Transfers

Except as described elsewhere in this Agreement, Customer Data and Personal Data
that Microsoft Processes on Customer’s behalf may be transferred to, and stored
and Processed in, the United States or any other country in which Microsoft or
its Subprocessors operate. Customer appoints Microsoft to perform any such
transfer of Customer Data and Personal Data to any such country and to store and
Process Customer Data and Personal Data to provide the Customer Services.

Microsoft will abide by the requirements of European Economic Area and Swiss
data protection law regarding the collection, use, transfer, retention, and
other Processing of Personal Data from the European Economic Area and
Switzerland. All transfers of Personal Data to a third country or an
international organization will be subject to appropriate safeguards as
described in Article 46 of the GDPR and such transfers and safeguards will be
documented according to Article 30(2) of the GDPR.

In addition, Microsoft is certified to the EU-U.S. and Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield
Frameworks and the commitments they entail. Microsoft agrees to notify Customer
in the event that it makes a determination that it can no longer meet its
obligation to provide the same level of protection as is required by the Privacy
Shield principles.

Data Retention and Deletion

At all times during the term of Customer’s subscription, Customer will have the
ability to access, extract and delete Customer Data stored in the Services.

Except for free trials and LinkedIn services, Microsoft will retain Customer
Data that remains stored in the Services in a limited function account for 90
days after expiration or termination of Customer’s subscription so that Customer
may extract the data. After the 90-day retention period ends, Microsoft will
disable Customer’s account and delete the Customer Data and Personal Data within
an additional 90 days, unless Microsoft is permitted or required by applicable
law to retain such data or authorized in this Agreement.

The Services may not support retention or extraction of software provided by
Customer. Microsoft has no liability for the deletion of Customer Data or
Personal Data as described in this section.

Processor Confidentiality Commitment

Microsoft will ensure that its personnel engaged in the Processing of Customer
Data and Personal Data (i) will Process such data only on instructions from
Customer, and (ii) will be obligated to maintain the confidentiality and
security of such data even after their engagement ends.

Notice and Controls on use of Subprocessors

Microsoft may hire third parties to provide certain limited or ancillary
services on its behalf. Customer consents to the engagement of these third
parties and Microsoft Affiliates as Subprocessors. The above authorizations will
constitute Customer’s prior written consent to the subcontracting by Microsoft
of the processing of Customer Data and Personal Data if such consent is required
under the Standard Contractual Clauses.

Microsoft is responsible for its Subprocessors’ compliance with Microsoft’s
obligations in the Agreement. Microsoft makes available information about
Subprocessors on a Microsoft website. When engaging any Subprocessor, Microsoft
will ensure via a written contract that the Subprocessor may access and use
Customer Data or Personal Data only to deliver the services Microsoft has
retained them to provide and is prohibited from using Customer Data or Personal
Data for any other purpose. Microsoft will ensure that Subprocessors are bound
by written agreements that require them to provide at least the level of data
protection required of Microsoft by this Agreement.

From time to time, Microsoft may engage new Subprocessors. Microsoft will give
Customer notice (by updating the website and provide Customer with a mechanism
to obtain notice of that update) of any new Subprocessor at least 14-days in
advance of providing that Subprocessor with access to Customer Data or Personal
Data.

If Customer does not approve of a new Subprocessor, then Customer may terminate
any subscription for the Services without penalty by providing, before the end
of the relevant notice period, written notice of termination that includes an
explanation of the grounds for non-approval.

How to Contact Microsoft

If Customer believes that Microsoft is not adhering to its privacy or security
commitments, Customer may contact customer support or use Microsoft’s Privacy
web form, located at http://go.microsoft.com/?linkid=9846224. Microsoft’s
mailing address is:

Microsoft Enterprise Service Privacy

Microsoft Corporation

One Microsoft Way

Redmond, Washington 98052 USA

Microsoft Ireland Operations Limited is Microsoft’s data protection
representative for the European Economic Area and Switzerland. The privacy
representative of Microsoft Ireland Operations Limited can be reached at the
following address:

Microsoft Ireland Operations, Ltd.

Attn: Data Protection

One Microsoft Place

South County Business Park

Leopardstown

Dublin 18

D18 P521

**Attachment 1 to Exhibit A – The Standard Contractual Clauses (Processors)**

Beginning May 25, 2018 and thereafter, references to various Articles from the
Directive 95/46/EC in the Standard Contractual Clauses below will be treated as
references to the relevant and appropriate Articles in the GDPR.

For the purposes of Article 26(2) of Directive 95/46/EC for the transfer of
personal data to processors established in third countries which do not ensure
an adequate level of data protection, Customer (as data exporter) and Microsoft
Corporation (as data importer), each a “party,” together “the parties,” have
agreed on the following Contractual Clauses (the “Clauses” or “Standard
Contractual Clauses”) in order to adduce adequate safeguards with respect to the
protection of privacy and fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals for the
transfer by the data exporter to the data importer of the personal data
specified in Appendix 1.

Clause 1: Definitions

(a) 'personal data', 'special categories of data', 'process/processing',
'controller', 'processor', 'data subject' and 'supervisory authority' will have
the same meaning as in Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the
processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data;

(b) 'the data exporter' means the controller who transfers the personal data;

(c) 'the data importer' means the processor who agrees to receive from the data
exporter personal data intended for processing on his behalf after the transfer
in accordance with his instructions and the terms of the Clauses and who is not
subject to a third country's system ensuring adequate protection within the
meaning of Article 25(1) of Directive 95/46/EC;

(d) 'the subprocessor' means any processor engaged by the data importer or by
any other subprocessor of the data importer who agrees to receive from the data
importer or from any other subprocessor of the data importer personal data
exclusively intended for processing activities to be carried out on behalf of
the data exporter after the transfer in accordance with his instructions, the
terms of the Clauses and the terms of the written subcontract;

(e) 'the applicable data protection law' means the legislation protecting the
fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals and, in particular, their right
to privacy with respect to the processing of personal data applicable to a data
controller in the Member State in which the data exporter is established;

(f) 'technical and organisational security measures' means those measures aimed
at protecting personal data against accidental or unlawful destruction or
accidental loss, alteration, unauthorised disclosure or access, in particular
where the processing involves the transmission of data over a network, and
against all other unlawful forms of processing.

Clause 2: Details of the transfer

The details of the transfer and in particular the special categories of personal
data where applicable are specified in Appendix 1 below which forms an integral
part of the Clauses.

Clause 3: Third-party beneficiary clause

1. The data subject can enforce against the data exporter this Clause, Clause
4(b) to (i), Clause 5(a) to (e), and (g) to (j), Clause 6(1) and (2), Clause 7,
Clause 8(2), and Clauses 9 to 12 as third-party beneficiary.

2. The data subject can enforce against the data importer this Clause, Clause
5(a) to (e) and (g), Clause 6, Clause 7, Clause 8(2), and Clauses 9 to 12, in
cases where the data exporter has factually disappeared or has ceased to exist
in law unless any successor entity has assumed the entire legal obligations of
the data exporter by contract or by operation of law, as a result of which it
takes on the rights and obligations of the data exporter, in which case the data
subject can enforce them against such entity.

3. The data subject can enforce against the subprocessor this Clause, Clause
5(a) to (e) and (g), Clause 6, Clause 7, Clause 8(2), and Clauses 9 to 12, in
cases where both the data exporter and the data importer have factually
disappeared or ceased to exist in law or have become insolvent, unless any
successor entity has assumed the entire legal obligations of the data exporter
by contract or by operation of law as a result of which it takes on the rights
and obligations of the data exporter, in which case the data subject can enforce
them against such entity. Such third-party liability of the subprocessor will be
limited to its own processing operations under the Clauses.

4. The parties do not object to a data subject being represented by an
association or other body if the data subject so expressly wishes and if
permitted by national law.

Clause 4: Obligations of the data exporter

The data exporter agrees and warrants:

(a) that the processing, including the transfer itself, of the personal data has
been and will continue to be carried out in accordance with the relevant
provisions of the applicable data protection law (and, where applicable, has
been notified to the relevant authorities of the Member State where the data
exporter is established) and does not violate the relevant provisions of that
State;

(b) that it has instructed and throughout the duration of the personal data
processing services will instruct the data importer to process the personal data
transferred only on the data exporter's behalf and in accordance with the
applicable data protection law and the Clauses;

(c) that the data importer will provide sufficient guarantees in respect of the
technical and organisational security measures specified in Appendix 2 below;

(d) that after assessment of the requirements of the applicable data protection
law, the security measures are appropriate to protect personal data against
accidental or unlawful destruction or accidental loss, alteration, unauthorised
disclosure or access, in particular where the processing involves the
transmission of data over a network, and against all other unlawful forms of
processing, and that these measures ensure a level of security appropriate to
the risks presented by the processing and the nature of the data to be protected
having regard to the state of the art and the cost of their implementation;

(e) that it will ensure compliance with the security measures;

(f) that, if the transfer involves special categories of data, the data subject
has been informed or will be informed before, or as soon as possible after, the
transfer that its data could be transmitted to a third country not providing
adequate protection within the meaning of Directive 95/46/EC;

(g) to forward any notification received from the data importer or any
subprocessor pursuant to Clause 5(b) and Clause 8(3) to the data protection
supervisory authority if the data exporter decides to continue the transfer or
to lift the suspension;

(h) to make available to the data subjects upon request a copy of the Clauses,
with the exception of Appendix 2, and a summary description of the security
measures, as well as a copy of any contract for subprocessing services which has
to be made in accordance with the Clauses, unless the Clauses or the contract
contain commercial information, in which case it may remove such commercial
information;

(i) that, in the event of subprocessing, the processing activity is carried out
in accordance with Clause 11 by a subprocessor providing at least the same level
of protection for the personal data and the rights of data subject as the data
importer under the Clauses; and

(j) that it will ensure compliance with Clause 4(a) to (i).

Clause 5: Obligations of the data importer

The data importer agrees and warrants:

(a) to process the personal data only on behalf of the data exporter and in
compliance with its instructions and the Clauses; if it cannot provide such
compliance for whatever reasons, it agrees to inform promptly the data exporter
of its inability to comply, in which case the data exporter is entitled to
suspend the transfer of data and/or terminate the contract;

(b) that it has no reason to believe that the legislation applicable to it
prevents it from fulfilling the instructions received from the data exporter and
its obligations under the contract and that in the event of a change in this
legislation which is likely to have a substantial adverse effect on the
warranties and obligations provided by the Clauses, it will promptly notify the
change to the data exporter as soon as it is aware, in which case the data
exporter is entitled to suspend the transfer of data and/or terminate the
contract;

(c) that it has implemented the technical and organisational security measures
specified in Appendix 2 before processing the personal data transferred;

(d) that it will promptly notify the data exporter about:

(i) any legally binding request for disclosure of the personal data by a law
enforcement authority unless otherwise prohibited, such as a prohibition under
criminal law to preserve the confidentiality of a law enforcement investigation,

(ii) any accidental or unauthorised access, and

(iii) any request received directly from the data subjects without responding to
that request, unless it has been otherwise authorised to do so;

(e) to deal promptly and properly with all inquiries from the data exporter
relating to its processing of the personal data subject to the transfer and to
abide by the advice of the supervisory authority with regard to the processing
of the data transferred;

(f) at the request of the data exporter to submit its data processing facilities
for audit of the processing activities covered by the Clauses which will be
carried out by the data exporter or an inspection body composed of independent
members and in possession of the required professional qualifications bound by a
duty of confidentiality, selected by the data exporter, where applicable, in
agreement with the supervisory authority;

(g) to make available to the data subject upon request a copy of the Clauses, or
any existing contract for subprocessing, unless the Clauses or contract contain
commercial information, in which case it may remove such commercial information,
with the exception of Appendix 2 which will be replaced by a summary description
of the security measures in those cases where the data subject is unable to
obtain a copy from the data exporter;

(h) that, in the event of subprocessing, it has previously informed the data
exporter and obtained its prior written consent;

(i) that the processing services by the subprocessor will be carried out in
accordance with Clause 11; and

(j) to send promptly a copy of any subprocessor agreement it concludes under the
Clauses to the data exporter.

Clause 6: Liability

1. The parties agree that any data subject who has suffered damage as a result
of any breach of the obligations referred to in Clause 3 or in Clause 11 by any
party or subprocessor is entitled to receive compensation from the data exporter
for the damage suffered.

2. If a data subject is not able to bring a claim for compensation in accordance
with paragraph 1 against the data exporter, arising out of a breach by the data
importer or his subprocessor of any of their obligations referred to in Clause 3
or in Clause 11, because the data exporter has factually disappeared or ceased
to exist in law or has become insolvent, the data importer agrees that the data
subject may issue a claim against the data importer as if it were the data
exporter, unless any successor entity has assumed the entire legal obligations
of the data exporter by contract of by operation of law, in which case the data
subject can enforce its rights against such entity.

The data importer may not rely on a breach by a subprocessor of its obligations
in order to avoid its own liabilities.

3. If a data subject is not able to bring a claim against the data exporter or
the data importer referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, arising out of a breach by
the subprocessor of any of their obligations referred to in Clause 3 or in
Clause 11 because both the data exporter and the data importer have factually
disappeared or ceased to exist in law or have become insolvent, the subprocessor
agrees that the data subject may issue a claim against the data subprocessor
with regard to its own processing operations under the Clauses as if it were the
data exporter or the data importer, unless any successor entity has assumed the
entire legal obligations of the data exporter or data importer by contract or by
operation of law, in which case the data subject can enforce its rights against
such entity. The liability of the subprocessor will be limited to its own
processing operations under the Clauses.

Clause 7: Mediation and jurisdiction

1. The data importer agrees that if the data subject invokes against it
third-party beneficiary rights and/or claims compensation for damages under the
Clauses, the data importer will accept the decision of the data subject:

(a) to refer the dispute to mediation, by an independent person or, where
applicable, by the supervisory authority;

(b) to refer the dispute to the courts in the Member State in which the data
exporter is established.

2. The parties agree that the choice made by the data subject will not prejudice
its substantive or procedural rights to seek remedies in accordance with other
provisions of national or international law.

Clause 8: Cooperation with supervisory authorities

1. The data exporter agrees to deposit a copy of this contract with the
supervisory authority if it so requests or if such deposit is required under the
applicable data protection law.

2. The parties agree that the supervisory authority has the right to conduct an
audit of the data importer, and of any subprocessor, which has the same scope
and is subject to the same conditions as would apply to an audit of the data
exporter under the applicable data protection law.

3. The data importer will promptly inform the data exporter about the existence
of legislation applicable to it or any subprocessor preventing the conduct of an
audit of the data importer, or any subprocessor, pursuant to paragraph 2. In
such a case the data exporter will be entitled to take the measures foreseen in
Clause 5 (b).

Clause 9: Governing Law.

The Clauses will be governed by the law of the Member State in which the data
exporter is established.

Clause 10: Variation of the contract

The parties undertake not to vary or modify the Clauses. This does not preclude
the parties from adding clauses on business related issues where required as
long as they do not contradict the Clause.

Clause 11: Subprocessing

1. The data importer will not subcontract any of its processing operations
performed on behalf of the data exporter under the Clauses without the prior
written consent of the data exporter. Where the data importer subcontracts its
obligations under the Clauses, with the consent of the data exporter, it will do
so only by way of a written agreement with the subprocessor which imposes the
same obligations on the subprocessor as are imposed on the data importer under
the Clauses. Where the subprocessor fails to fulfil its data protection
obligations under such written agreement the data importer will remain fully
liable to the data exporter for the performance of the subprocessor's
obligations under such agreement.

2. The prior written contract between the data importer and the subprocessor
will also provide for a third-party beneficiary clause as laid down in Clause 3
for cases where the data subject is not able to bring the claim for compensation
referred to in paragraph 1 of Clause 6 against the data exporter or the data
importer because they have factually disappeared or have ceased to exist in law
or have become insolvent and no successor entity has assumed the entire legal
obligations of the data exporter or data importer by contract or by operation of
law. Such third-party liability of the subprocessor will be limited to its own
processing operations under the Clauses.

3. The provisions relating to data protection aspects for subprocessing of the
contract referred to in paragraph 1 will be governed by the law of the Member
State in which the data exporter is established.

4. The data exporter will keep a list of subprocessing agreements concluded
under the Clauses and notified by the data importer pursuant to Clause 5 (j),
which will be updated at least once a year. The list will be available to the
data exporter's data protection supervisory authority.

Clause 12: Obligation after the termination of personal data processing services

1. The parties agree that on the termination of the provision of data processing
services, the data importer and the subprocessor will, at the choice of the data
exporter, return all the personal data transferred and the copies thereof to the
data exporter or will destroy all the personal data and certify to the data
exporter that it has done so, unless legislation imposed upon the data importer
prevents it from returning or destroying all or part of the personal data
transferred. In that case, the data importer warrants that it will guarantee the
confidentiality of the personal data transferred and will not actively process
the personal data transferred anymore.

2. The data importer and the subprocessor warrant that upon request of the data
exporter and/or of the supervisory authority, it will submit its data processing
facilities for an audit of the measures referred to in paragraph 1.

**Appendix 1 to the Standard Contractual Clauses**

Data exporter: Customer is the data exporter. The data exporter is a user of the
Services as defined in the Agreement.

Data importer: The data importer is MICROSOFT CORPORATION, a global producer of
software and services.

Data subjects: Data subjects include the data exporter’s representatives and
end-users including employees, contractors, collaborators, and customers of the
data exporter. Data subjects may also include individuals attempting to
communicate or transfer personal information to users of the services provided
by data importer.

Categories of data: The personal data transferred includes e-mail, documents and
other data in an electronic form in the context of the Services.

Processing operations: The personal data transferred will be subject to the
following basic processing activities:

a. Duration and Object of Data Processing. The duration of data processing will
be for the term designated in the Agreement. The objective of the data
processing is the performance of Services.

b. Scope and Purpose of Data Processing. The scope and purpose of processing
personal data is described in the Security Practices and Policies section of the
Agreement. The data importer operates a global network of data centers and
management/support facilities, and processing may take place in any jurisdiction
where data importer or its sub-processors operate such facilities.

c. Customer Data Access. For the term designated under the Agreement data
importer will at its election and as necessary under applicable law implementing
Article 12(b) of the EU Data Protection Directive, either: (1) provide data
exporter with the ability to correct, delete, or block Customer Data, or (2)
make such corrections, deletions, or blockages on its behalf.

d. Data Exporter’s Instructions. For the Services, data importer will only act
upon data exporter’s instructions as conveyed by Microsoft.

e. Customer Data Deletion or Return. Upon expiration or termination of data
exporter’s use of the Services, it may extract Customer Data and data importer
will delete Customer Data, each in accordance with the Agreement.

Subcontractors: The data importer may hire other companies to provide limited
services on data importer’s behalf, such as providing customer support. Any such
subcontractors will be permitted to obtain Customer Data only to deliver the
services the data importer has retained them to provide, and they are prohibited
from using Customer Data for any other purpose.

**Appendix 2 to the Standard Contractual Clauses**

Description of the technical and organizational security measures implemented by
the data importer in accordance with Clauses 4(d) and 5(c):

1. Personnel. Data importer’s personnel will not process Customer Data without
authorization. Personnel are obligated to maintain the confidentiality of any
Customer Data and this obligation continues even after their engagement ends.

2. Data Privacy Contact. The data privacy officer of the data importer can be
reached at the following address:

Microsoft Corporation

Attn: Chief Privacy Officer

1 Microsoft Way

Redmond, WA 98052 USA

3. Technical and Organization Measures. The data importer has implemented and
will maintain appropriate technical and organizational measures, internal
controls, and information security routines intended to protect Customer Data,
as defined in the Security Practices and Policies section of the Agreement,
against accidental loss, destruction, or alteration; unauthorized disclosure or
access; or unlawful destruction.
