---
title: SUPPLEMENTAL TERMS FOR TRIAL SERVICES
author: ReneeW-CPub
---

<a name="top"></a>

# SUPPLEMENTAL TERMS FOR TRIAL SERVICES

These terms supplement the applicable terms of the [Microsoft Online
Subscription
Agreement](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/legal/subscription-agreement/)
(the “Agreement”) and any terms referenced therein that govern your use of the
Trial Service. For the purposes of these Supplemental Terms for Trial Services
(“the **Supplemental Terms**”), any trial of a commercially-available Online
Service that links to these Supplemental Terms will be referred to as a “**Trial
Service**”.

All terms used but not defined will have the same meanings as in the Agreement.
Any additional legal terms that apply to your use of a specific Trial Service
(“Specific Terms”) are set forth below. If a Trial Service links to these
Supplemental Terms but it is not listed below, then that Trial Service does not
have any Specific Terms.

For the avoidance of doubt, different Specific Terms may be applicable to you or
your personnel at different times, and multiple Specific Terms may be applicable
at one time, all depending on which trial periods are in effect for which Trial
Services at any given time.

**Content in this supplement**

[Microsoft Dynamics 365 Sales, Marketing, Customer Service, Customer Service Insights, Field Service, and Project Service Automation](#1)

[Microsoft Dynamics 365 Business Central](#2)

[Microsoft Dynamics 365 Finance, and Microsoft Dynamics 365 Supply Chain Management](#3)

[Microsoft Dynamics 365 Commerce](#4)

[Microsoft Dynamics 365 Human Resources](#5)

<a name="1"></a>
**Specific Terms for Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Sales, Marketing, Customer
Service, Customer Service Insights, Field Service, and Project Service
Automation**

**1. Trial Period.** Except for Dynamics 365 for Marketing, which only allows
one trial per customer organization, there may be up to five concurrent trials
of the Trial Service at any given time for your organization (each, a “**Trial
Instance**”), and each such Trial Instance will remain accessible for a 30-day
period beginning on the date when the first user of a given Trial Instance is
first given access to it (“**Trial Instance Effective Date**”) until the date
that is 30 days after such date (each, a “**Trial Period**”). Any given user in
your organization who wants to gain access to this Trial Service may either
create a new Trial Instance (if one is then available, subject to the foregoing
limit on concurrent Trial Instances), in which case the Trial Period applicable
to that user is 30 days, or that user may join any of the then-existing Trial
Instances for your organization, in which case the Trial Period applicable to
that user is the remainder of the 30-day period that began on the Trial Instance
Effective Date for that Trial Instance. When the Trial Period for any given
Trial Instance expires, that Trial Instance may be made available to you to
export data in accordance with Section 5 below, after which that Trial Instance
will be deleted, and you may create a new Trial Instance in its place (subject
to the foregoing limit on concurrent Trial Instances).

Notwithstanding the foregoing, Dynamics 365 Customer Service Insights allows
unlimited trials per customer organization.

**2. Termination.** Without limiting the generality of any applicable terms in
the Agreement, Microsoft may terminate your access to this Trial Service through
a given Trial Instance at any time if you fail to access and actively use this
Trial Service through such Trial Instance for any period of 7 consecutive days
(and Microsoft may terminate your access to this Trial Service through all Trial
Instances at any time if you fail to access and actively use this Trial Service
through all such Trial Instances for any period of 7 consecutive days).

**3. Administrator.** Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Agreement,
as applicable to this Trial Service and solely to the extent there is not
already an administrator associated with your organization, the administrator is
deemed to be the first user in your organization who creates a Trial Instance,
subject to later change by anyone authorized to act on behalf of that
organization who demonstrates administrative control over the domain associated
with the email for that organization sufficient to manage the domain records.

**4. Privacy.** Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Agreement, you
acknowledge (and will inform all users in your domain) that: **(A)** the
administrator will control all Trial Instances within your domain and will
manage and have access to all Customer Data within all such Trial Instances;
**(B)** all users in your domain, when reviewing existing Trial Instances such
user may want to join, will have access to certain Customer Data for each such
Trial Instance (including the existence of such Trial Instance, the identity and
certain personal information of all then-current users participating in such
Trial Instance, and the name chosen for each Trial Instance); and **(C)** all
users in your domain participating in a given Trial Instance will have access to
all Customer Data input into that Trial Instance, without regard to which user
input such Customer Data.

**5. Exporting Customer Data.** If you have included “live” or production
Customer Data in any Trial Instance of this Trial Service, and you elect not to
purchase a subscription to the Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Sales, Customer
Service, Customer Service Insights, Field Service, Marketing, or Project Service
Automation service before expiration of the Trial Period for that Trial
Instance: **(A)** Microsoft has no obligation to return Customer Data to you;
**(B)** Microsoft will retain such Customer Data for at least 7 days after the
expiration of the applicable Trial Period for that Trial Instance; and **(C)**
Microsoft will make commercially reasonable efforts to work with you to export
such Customer Data. Microsoft will solely own any enhancements or improvements
to the Trial Service arising from access to and use of Customer Data. Microsoft
may also use information derived from Customer Data if such use does not include
Customer Data and no Customer Data can be reverse engineered from such use.

**6. Compliance with Applicable Laws.** You shall, as a condition of using the
“Dynamics 365 for Marketing” online service, comply with all applicable laws and
regulations governing your dissemination of any promotional materials through
your use of the “Dynamics 365 for Marketing” online service. Microsoft bears no
responsibility for your failure to comply with any such applicable laws or
regulations.

**7. Defense of Claims & Damages.** You agree that you and/or your organization
will defend Microsoft against all third party claims arising out of, or in
connection with, **(A)** your use of the Trial Service in a manner that is
prohibited by these Supplemental Terms, and/or, **(B)** any privacy violation
alleged to have been committed or spam sent by you through your use of the Trial
Service. You agree that Microsoft has the right to seek and recover all damages
caused by you through your use the Trial Service for unlawful purposes, in an
unlawful manner, or in a manner that violates Microsoft’s acceptable use, and/or
anti-spam policies. The terms of this section shall survive the expiration or
termination of your relationship with Microsoft. For the avoidance of doubt, any
damages arising from the obligations imposed on you by these Specific Terms are
not subject any exclusion or cap on your liability that may be included in the
Agreement.

[Back to Top](#top)

<a name="2"></a>
**Specific Terms for Microsoft Dynamics 365 Business Central**

**1. Trial Period.** You may use this Trial Service from the date when you are
first given access to it: **(A)** solely with demonstration data provided by
Microsoft, for a period of 6 months until the Agreement or your right to access
this Trial Service expires or is terminated; and **(B)** with “live” or
production Customer Data, for 30 days after you first use this Trial Service
with such Customer Data. The foregoing periods are, collectively, the “**Trial
Period**”. If the Trial Period in the foregoing clause (B) expires and you have
not entered into a commercial subscription agreement for the Microsoft Dynamics
365 Business Central service with a third-party Microsoft cloud service provider
that will offer and support such commercial version, then you must immediately
stop using the Trial Service (or any successor service) with such “live” or
production Customer Data.

**2. Exporting Customer Data.** If you have included “live” or production
Customer Data in this Trial Service, and you elect not to purchase a
subscription to the Microsoft Dynamics 365 Business Central service before the
expiration of the Trial Period for this Trial Service: **(A)** Microsoft has no
obligation to return Customer Data to you; **(B)** Microsoft will retain such
Customer Data for at least 90 days after the expiration of the Trial Period; and
**(C)** Microsoft will make commercially reasonable efforts to work with you to
export such Customer Data.

**3. Termination.** If you use this Trial Service with demonstration data,
Microsoft may terminate your access to this Trial Service at any time if you
fail to access and actively use this Trial Service for any period of 30
consecutive days.

[Back to Top](#top)

<a name="3"></a>
**Specific Terms for Microsoft Dynamics 365 Finance; Microsoft Dynamics 365
Supply Chain Management**

**1. Trial Period.** Subject to Section 2, you may use this Trial Service for a
period of 30 days from the date when you are first given access to it, solely
with demonstration data provided by Microsoft or you through your use of this
Trial Service, until the Agreement or your right to access this Trial Service
expires or is terminated.

**2. Termination.** Microsoft may terminate your access to this Trial Service at
any time if you fail to access and actively use this Trial Service for any
period of 7 consecutive days.

[Back to Top](#top)

<a name="4"></a>
**Specific Terms for Microsoft Dynamics 365 Commerce**

**1. Trial Period.** Subject to Section 2, you may use this Trial Service for a
period of 30 days from the date when you are first given access to it, solely
with demonstration data provided by Microsoft or you through your use of this
Trial Service, until the Agreement or your right to access this Trial Service
expires or is terminated.

**2. Termination.** Microsoft may terminate your access to this Trial Service at
any time if you fail to access and actively use this Trial Service for any
period of 7 consecutive days.

[Back to Top](#top)

<a name="5"></a>
**Specific Terms for Microsoft Dynamics 365 Human Resources**

**1. Trial Period.** You may use this Trial Service for a period of 60 days from
the date when you are first given access to it, solely with demonstration data
provided by Microsoft or you through your use of this Trial Service, until the
Agreement or your right to access this Trial Service expires or is terminated.

**2. Termination.** Microsoft may terminate your access to this Trial Service at
any time if you fail to access and actively use this Trial Service for any
period of 7 consecutive days.

[Back to Top](#top)
