---
title: SUPPLEMENTAL TERMS FOR MICROSOFT DYNAMICS CUSTOMER VOICE TRIAL
author: ReneeW-CPub
robots: no-index, no-follow
---
# SUPPLEMENTAL TERMS FOR MICROSOFT DYNAMICS CUSTOMER VOICE TRIAL 

These terms supplement the applicable terms of your applicable volume licensing
agreement (e.g., the [Microsoft Online Subscription
Agreement](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/legal/subscription-agreement/))(the
“**Agreement**”) and any terms referenced therein that govern your use of the
Trial Service. These Supplemental Terms for Microsoft Dynamics Customer Voice
Trial (“the **Supplemental Terms**”), apply to the trial of the
commercially-available version of Microsoft Dynamics Customer Voice (the
“**Trial Service**”).

All terms used but not defined will have the same meanings as in the Agreement.

1. **Trial Period**. There may be unlimited trials of the Trial Service at any
given time for your organization (each, a “**Trial Instance**”), and each such
Trial Instance will remain accessible for a 30-day period beginning on the date
when the first user of a given Trial Instance is first given access to it
(“Trial Instance Effective Date”) until the date that is 30 days after such date
(each, a “**Trial Period**”). Any given user in your organization who wants to
gain access to this Trial Service may either create a new Trial Instance, in
which case the Trial Period applicable to that user is 30 days, or that user may
join any of the then-existing Trial Instances for your organization, in which
case the Trial Period applicable to that user is the remainder of the Trial
Period for that Trial Instance. When the Trial Period for any given Trial
Instance expires, that Trial Instance may be made available to you to export
data in accordance with Section 5 below, after which that Trial Instance will be
deleted, and you may create a new Trial Instance in its place.

2. **Termination**. Without limiting the generality of any applicable terms in
the Agreement, Microsoft may terminate your access to this Trial Service through
a given Trial Instance at any time if you fail to access and actively use this
Trial Service through such Trial Instance for any period of 7 consecutive days
(and Microsoft may terminate your access to this Trial Service through all Trial
Instances at any time if you fail to access and actively use this Trial Service
through all such Trial Instances for any period of 7 consecutive days).

3. **Administrator**. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Agreement,
as applicable to this Trial Service and solely to the extent there is not
already an administrator associated with your organization, the administrator is
deemed to be the first user in your organization who creates a Trial Instance,
subject to later change by anyone authorized to act on behalf of that
organization who demonstrates administrative control over the domain associated
with the email for that organization sufficient to manage the domain records.

4. **Privacy**. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Agreement, you
acknowledge (and will inform all users in your domain) that: **(A)** the
administrator will control all Trial Instances within your domain and will
manage and have access to all Customer Data within all such Trial Instances;
**(B)** all users in your domain, when reviewing existing Trial Instances such
user may want to join, will have access to certain Customer Data for each such
Trial Instance (including the existence of such Trial Instance, the identity and
certain personal information of all then-current users participating in such
Trial Instance, and the name chosen for each Trial Instance); and **(C)** all
users in your domain participating in a given Trial Instance will have access to
all Customer Data input into that Trial Instance, without regard to which user
input such Customer Data.

5. **Exporting Customer Data**. If you have included “live” or production
Customer Data in any Trial Instance of this Trial Service, and you elect not to
purchase a subscription to Microsoft Dynamics Customer Voice before expiration
of the Trial Period for that Trial Instance: **(A)** Microsoft has no obligation
to return Customer Data to you; **(B)** Microsoft will retain such Customer Data
for 90 days after the expiration of the applicable Trial Period for that Trial
Instance; and **(C)** Microsoft will make commercially reasonable efforts to
work with you to export such Customer Data. Microsoft will solely own any
enhancements or improvements to the Trial Service arising from access to and use
of Customer Data. Microsoft may also use information derived from Customer Data
if such use does not include Customer Data and no Customer Data can be reverse
engineered from such use.

6. **Compliance with Applicable Laws and Acceptable Use Policy**. You shall, as
a condition of using the Trial Service, comply with all applicable laws and
regulations governing your use of the Microsoft Dynamics Customer Voice service,
and comply with Microsoft’s Acceptable Use Policy. Microsoft bears no
responsibility for your failure to comply with any such applicable laws or
regulations.

7. **Defense of Claims & Damages**. You agree that you and/or your organization
will defend Microsoft against all third party claims arising out of, or in
connection with, **(A)** your use of the Trial Service in a manner that is
prohibited by these Supplemental Terms, and/or, **(B)** any privacy violation
alleged to have been committed or spam sent by you through your use of the Trial
Service. You agree that Microsoft has the right to seek and recover all damages
caused by you through your use the Trial Service for unlawful purposes, in an
unlawful manner, or in a manner that violates Microsoft’s acceptable use, and/or
anti-spam policies. The terms of this section shall survive the expiration or
termination of your relationship with Microsoft. For the avoidance of doubt, any
damages arising from the obligations imposed on you by these Supplemental Terms
are not subject any exclusion or cap on your liability that may be included in
the Agreement.
