---
title: Supplemental Terms
author: ReneeW-CPub
---

**PLEASE NOTE:**  Microsoft Corporation (or based on where you live, one of its
affiliates) licenses this supplement to you.  You may use it with each validly
licensed copy of Microsoft Dynamics 365 software (for which this supplement is
applicable) (the “software”) or each validly licensed subscription of Microsoft
Dynamics 365 services (the “online service”).  You may not use the supplement if
you do not have a license for the software or the online service.  The license
terms for the software or the services apply to your use of this supplement. 

**DATA COLLECTION.** The software may collect information about you and your use
of the software and send that to Microsoft. Microsoft may use this information
to provide services and improve Microsoft’s products and services. Your opt-out
rights, if any, are described in the product documentation. Some features in the
software may enable collection of data from users of your applications that
access or use the software. If you use these features to enable data collection
in your applications, you must comply with applicable law, including getting any
required user consent, and maintain a prominent privacy policy that accurately
informs users about how you use, collect, and share their data. You can learn
more about Microsoft’s data collection and use in the product documentation and
the Microsoft Privacy Statement at
<https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=521839>. You agree to comply with all
applicable provisions of the Microsoft Privacy Statement.

**PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA.** To the extent Microsoft is a processor or
sub-processor of personal data in connection with the software, Microsoft makes
the commitments in the European Union General Data Protection Regulation Terms
of the Online Services Terms to all customers effective May 25, 2018, at
<https://go.microsoft.com/?linkid=9840733>.  
