---
title: Supplemental Terms
author: m-hartmann
---
# Supplemental Terms of Use for Dynamics 365 - Gamification

**PLEASE NOTE**: Microsoft Corporation (or based on where you live, one of its
affiliates) licenses this supplement to you. You may use it with each validly
licensed subscription of Microsoft Dynamics 365 online services (the “online
service”). You may not use this supplement if you do not have a license for the
online service. The license terms for the online service apply to your use of
this supplement. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the applicable
license terms or in the Microsoft Privacy Statement (which can be found at
<https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=512132>), the following additional terms
will govern your use of the supplement.

This supplement is not provisioned in a dedicated data center for exclusive use
by you and it is neither part of, nor a component of the online service. Your
use of this supplement shall not be subject to any product-specific terms and
conditions applicable to Dynamics 365 Government or other Online Services for
which product-specific terms and conditions may be included in the Enrollment or
Agreement (including Amendments thereto, the Use Rights, or the Product Terms).
This supplement is also not subject to any references or statements made on the
Microsoft Trust Center.

THIS SUPPLEMENT IS PROVIDED "AS-IS," "WITH ALL FAULTS," AND "AS AVAILABLE," AND
ARE EXCLUDED FROM THE SLAS AND LIMITED WARRANTY described in the Online Services
Terms and materials referenced therein. This supplement may not be covered by
customer support.

If you do not agree to these additional terms, do not install or use this
supplement.

**IMPORTANT**: By installing or using this supplement, you consent to allow
authorized users of Microsoft Dynamics 365 online services to activate,
configure and enable certain functionality which transmits Customer Data to
external systems. Please consult the feature technical documentation for more
information.

Third Party Notices: <https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=828060>
