---
title: Supplemental Terms for Microsoft Dynamics 365 Voice and SMS Features Provided by ACS and Third-Party Providers
author: ReneeW-CPub
robots: noindex,nofollow
---

# Supplemental Terms for Microsoft Dynamics 365 Voice and SMS Features Provided by<br>ACS and Third-Party Providers

Updated: October 2020

**1. Applicability.** These Supplemental Terms govern the:

>   (i) use by you and any of your authorized users of the public switched
>   telephone network (“PSTN”) voice and/or messaging services provided by
>   Microsoft (or based on where you are located, one of its affiliates or other
>   entity authorized to provide the services) (“Microsoft”) via the Azure
>   Communication Services platform (“ACS” and collectively, “Microsoft
>   Supplemental Services”), and
>
>   (ii) access by you and any of your authorized users of the PSTN voice and/or
>   messaging services provided directly to you by third parties that you access
>   through the Microsoft Dynamics 365 software or Microsoft Dynamics 365 online
>   services and that are subject to those third-party terms and charges
>   (“Third-Party Supplemental Services”).

The term “you” also includes validly authorized users of your organization. The
term “Third-Parties” refers to the providers of the Third-Party Supplemental
Services. The term “Supplemental Services” refers collectively to the Microsoft
Supplemental Services and the Third-Party Supplemental Services.

**GENERAL TERMS**

**2. Agreement, Billing and Support for Third-Party Supplemental Services.**
Microsoft Dynamics 365 software and online services interface with Third Parties
through a Microsoft API connector so that you may access those Third-Party
Supplemental Services. To use Third-Party Supplemental Services through this
connector, you must enter into an agreement directly with the Third-Party for
such services. Microsoft is not the provider of, and does not manage billing or
support for, any such Third-Party Supplemental Services. You will address all
billing, support, and other issues relating to a Third-Party Supplemental
Service directly with the provider of such service. Your use of the Third-Party
Supplemental Service is governed by separate terms between you and the provider
of the Third-Party Supplemental Service.

**3. Software and Online Service License.** You may use the Microsoft
Supplemental Services, or the Third-Party Supplemental Services, with each
validly licensed copy of Microsoft Dynamics 365 software (“Software”), or each
validly licensed subscription to Microsoft Dynamics 365 online services (“Online
Services”), for which the Microsoft Supplemental Services, or Third-Party
Supplemental Services, are offered. You may not use the Microsoft Supplemental
Services, or Third-Party Supplemental Services, in conjunction with any Software
or Online Services if you do not have a license for that Software or Online
Service, or have not otherwise accepted all applicable terms of Microsoft and
Third-Parties. Your use of Software and Online Services is also subject to
applicable policies (including acceptable use policies) of ACS, Microsoft’s
service providers, receiving wireless carriers, and other third parties, such as
the Messaging Principles of CTIA – The Wireless Association. Access to or use of
certain functionality within the Supplemental Services may require additional
licenses for other software and online services, which may also require you to
pay an additional fee.

**4. Emergency Services.** You will not attempt to use outbound voice
functionalities of the Supplemental Services to access or allow access to
official, government-sponsored emergency telephone numbers (such as 911 or 112)
which is used to dispatch professional emergency responders (“Emergency
Services”) unless the specific Supplemental Service to which you have subscribed
is expressly approved by Microsoft for Emergency Services. NEITHER MICROSOFT NOR
ITS REPRESENTATIVES WILL BE LIABLE UNDER ANY LEGAL OR EQUITABLE THEORY FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGE, OR LOSS (AND YOU WILL HOLD MICROSOFT HARMLESS AGAINST ANY AND ALL
SUCH CLAIMS) ARISING FROM OR RELATING TO THE INABILITY TO USE THE SERVICES TO
CONTACT EMERGENCY SERVICES. NO OUTBOUND VOICE FUNCTIONALITY OF ANY SUPPLEMENTAL
SERVICE SHOULD BE USED FOR CONTACTING EMERGENCY SERVICES, UNLESS THE SERVICE IS
EXPRESSLY APPROVED FOR THIS PURPOSE.

**5. Data Sharing.** By using the Third-Party Supplemental Services, you consent
to your data being shared with the Third-Parties and to your data flowing
outside of your organization’s compliance and geographic location boundaries.
This includes government cloud environments. You can find more information in
the technical documentation from Microsoft and Third-Parties and the Microsoft
Privacy Statement at <https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=512132>.

**6. Messaging Activities.** You acknowledge that with respect to your use of
any PSTN messaging services, including any messaging features provided as part
of the Supplemental Services, you control and are responsible for, and Microsoft
does not determine, the (a) message content sent to recipients, (b) selection of
message recipients, (c) decision on whether or when to send such messages, (d)
actual sending of the messages, or (e) obtaining or retaining any necessary
consents to send such messages. Microsoft has no involvement in the foregoing
actions, or your use of any messaging services, including any messaging services
provided by Microsoft or Third-Parties, other than providing you with the
software, the online service, and access to any Third-Party Supplemental
Services for which you must enter into terms directly with the Third-Party.

**7. No Resale.** These Supplemental Terms do not authorize you to resell the
Supplemental Services (i.e., selling just the Supplemental Services without you
materially adding functionalities as part of your products and services). You
may only integrate the Supplemental Services into your products and services as
permitted by these and other applicable terms, but such products and services
may not consist of you merely rebranding the Supplemental Services and selling
such rebranded services under your name, tradename, or mark without you adding
material functionalities that differ from voice and text services. In addition
to any other remedies Microsoft may have, if you breach this provision and
resell the Supplemental Services, you – not Microsoft - are responsible for
complying with the regulatory requirements, fees, and taxes applicable to your
resale.

**8. Taxes and Fees.** You are responsible for the payment of all federal, state
and local taxes, fees, charges, telecommunications provider (e.g., carrier)
surcharges or other similar exactions, or taxes applicable to your products and
services that incorporate or otherwise use the Supplemental Services, as well as
the payment of any taxes and regulatory fees that any Third-Parties may charge
you.

**9. Acceptable Use.** In addition to the acceptable use provisions under your
license terms for the Software or Online Services, neither you, nor those that
access the Software, Online Services, or Supplemental Services through you, may
use the Supplemental Services in connection with (a) an automatic telephone
dialing system or other device with the capability to dial random or sequential
numbers; (b) expanding a transactional communication to include unconsented
promotional or marketing content whether directly in the body of the
transactional communication, accessible through a hyperlink contained in the
body of the transactional communication, or via any other indirect method; (c)
sending messages in a volume broadcast, including sending the same message or
similar messages to multiple recipients within a relatively short period of
time; (d) sending multiple messages exceeding the express or implied scope of
the end user’s initial consent; and (e) sending messages to recipients without
first obtaining prior consent from the recipient as required by applicable law.

**10. Term and Termination rights.** The term of these Supplemental Terms
("Term") begins when you agree to these terms or otherwise begin to use the
Supplemental Services, and continues until terminated or until Microsoft
terminates all access to the Supplemental Services, whichever occurs first.
Either party may terminate these Supplemental Terms on 30 days' notice for any
or no reason. Microsoft may also terminate or suspend these Supplemental Terms,
in whole or part, immediately on notice if you breach these Supplemental Terms
and the breach is one that cannot be cured to Microsoft’s satisfaction within 5
days after notice of such breach. These Supplemental Terms also terminate
automatically and without notice with respect to any Preview (defined below)
when it becomes generally publicly available, other than as a pre-release or
"beta" product or service, or Microsoft ceases to offer the Preview. On
termination or expiration of these Supplemental Terms, Participant must stop
using the Preview and Supplemental Services. The terms of these Supplemental
Terms that are likely to require performance, or have application to events that
may occur, after termination or expiration of these Supplemental Terms will
survive such termination or expiration, including all indemnity obligations and
procedures.

**11. Disclaimer of Warranties for Supplemental Services.** IN ADDITION TO ANY
DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES UNDER YOUR LICENSE TERMS FOR THE SOFTWARE OR ONLINE
SERVICES, MICROSOFT MAKES NO REPRESENTATION AND PROVIDES NO WARRANTIES REGARDING
THE SUPPLEMENTAL SERVICES OR THE INTERACTION BETWEEN THE SUPPLEMENTAL SERVICES
AND THE SOFTWARE OR THE ONLINE SERVICES AND THE SUPPLEMENTAL SERVICES AND
INTERACTION ARE PROVIDED “AS-IS,” “WITH ALL FAULTS,” AND “AS AVAILABLE.”
MICROSOFT DISCLAIMS ANY EXPRESS, IMPLIED, OR STATUTORY WARRANTIES, INCLUDING
WARRANTIES OF QUALITY, TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE FOR SUCH SERVICES.

**12. Indemnification.** Participant will defend Microsoft against any claims
made by an unaffiliated third party that **(i)** any customer data,
non-Microsoft Products, Marks, or services you provide, directly or indirectly,
in using the Software, Online Services, or Supplemental Services infringes the
third party's patent, copyright, or trademark or makes unlawful use of its trade
secret; **(ii)** arise from violation of the acceptable use terms herein or any
other policy that governs your use of the Software, Online Services, or
Supplemental Services; or **(iii)** arise from use of the Software, Online
Service, or Supplemental Services, including the processing of customer data or
any personal data.

**PREVIEW ACCESS**

**13. Preview Terms.** You may be given access to an early version of one or
more Supplemental Services, subject to any participant qualification
requirements, prior to such service being generally commercially available (each
such preview version, a "Preview"). The below terms apply to any such Preview,
in addition to the general terms above.

**14. Feedback.** You will give Microsoft suggestions, comments, input, ideas,
or know-how ("Feedback") about any Preview you participate in, except that you
will not provide Microsoft with Feedback that contains personal data or other
data that you are legally constrained from sharing with Microsoft or would
otherwise subject Microsoft to additional compliance obligations. You give
Microsoft, without charge, the right to use, share, and freely commercialize any
Feedback shared with Microsoft in compliance with this provision, in any way and
for any purpose. You also give third parties, without charge, the right to use,
or interface with, any Microsoft products or services that include the Feedback.
You represent and warrant that you owns or otherwise legally control all rights
to such Feedback and that no such Feedback is subject to any third-party rights.

**15. Nature of Preview.** You acknowledge that: **(i)** Previews may not work
correctly or the same way a commercially, generally available version may work;
**(ii)** if Microsoft elects to provide support for any Previews, such support
will be provided "as is," "with all faults," and without warranty, and Microsoft
may cease providing support at any time, without notice; **(iii)** Microsoft has
no obligation to hold, export, or return any of your data in relation to any
Previews; **(iv)** you may use Previews for testing and evaluation purposes only;
**(v)** you may not use Previews to access or process any "live" or production
customer data, or personal data or other data that is subject to legal or
regulatory compliance requirements; **(vi)** Microsoft may chose not to make a
Preview generally commercially available Previews may be subject to reduced or
different security, compliance and privacy commitments. Any data provided to
Microsoft through your use of Previews may be transferred, stored, and processed
in the United States, or in any other country where Microsoft or its
subcontractors operate.

**16. Preview Phone Numbers.** You acknowledge that: **(i)** the telephone
number(s) assigned to you as part of a Preview are on a temporary basis and may
not be eligible to be ported out of the Preview, whether to the generally
available version of the Supplemental Services or to another PSTN carrier;
**(ii)** pricing for Previews, including the telephone number(s) associated with
Previews, are subject to change once the Previews become commercially, generally
available.

**17. Publicity.** In connection with a Preview, Microsoft may create
documentation, films, photographs, referrals, quotations, or other recordings or
materials ("Publicity Materials"). You grant Microsoft the non-exclusive right
to: **(i)** use your name, trademarks and service marks, and logos ("Marks") in
such Publicity Materials; **(ii)** interview and film, photograph, and record
your employees and business operations at mutually agreed times and locations;
and **(iii)** use your or your employees' names, voices, statements, and
likenesses ("Name and Likeness") as embodied in the Publicity Materials for
advertising, marketing, promotional, editorial, and public relations purposes in
relation to Previews, in any and all media and formats. You will obtain (and
represent and warrant that you have obtained) all releases and clearances
necessary to grant all rights required by this publicity provision. You will
have the right to approve, before Microsoft's first use, any Publicity Materials
that include Marks or Name and Likeness. You will promptly review and either
approve or disapprove them (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld)
within 5 business days of receipt. Failure to respond within such 5-day period
will be deemed approval. You are solely responsible for bringing to Microsoft's
attention any factual errors or removing your confidential information from
Publicity Materials.

**18. Disclaimer.** Except as otherwise expressly provided in these Supplemental
Terms and to the extent applicable law permits, Microsoft: (i) provides all
Previews "as is"; (ii) provides no warranties (express, implied, statutory, or
otherwise), including of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose;
and (iii) does not guarantee that any Previews will be uninterrupted, available,
or error-free, or that loss of your data or the data of your users or customers
will not occur. Without limiting the above, Microsoft is not liable for any
damage to hardware or software or loss of files or data related to use of
Previews. **Liability for breach of an implied warranty that cannot, under
applicable law, be disclaimed or excluded is, if permitted by applicable law,
limited, at breaching party's election: (i) for goods, to replacing, repairing,
or supplying equivalent goods (or paying the cost of the foregoing or refunding
the purchase price); and (ii) for services, to supplying (or paying a third
party to supply) the services again or refunding the purchase price.**
