---
title: Supplemental Terms
author: Mattp123
---

# Supplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Dynamics 365 Server

PLEASE NOTE: Your use of the subscription service and software is subject to the
terms and conditions of the agreement you agreed to when you signed up for the
subscription and by which you acquired a license for the software. For instance,
if you are:

• a volume license customer, use of this software is subject to your volume
license agreement.

• a Microsoft Online Subscription customer, use of this software is subject to
the Microsoft Online Subscription agreement.

You may not use the service or software if you have not validly acquired a
license from Microsoft or its licensed distributors. The terms also apply to any
Microsoft updates, supplements, services and support services for the service or
software, unless other terms accompany those items. If so, those terms apply.
Printed paper license terms, which may come with the software, take the place of
any in software license terms.

**DATA COLLECTION.** The software may collect information about you and your use
of the software and send that to Microsoft. Microsoft may use this information
to provide services and improve Microsoft’s products and services. Your opt-out
rights, if any, are described in the product documentation. Some features in the
software may enable collection of data from users of your applications that
access or use the software. If you use these features to enable data collection
in your applications, you must comply with applicable law, including getting any
required user consent, and maintain a prominent privacy policy that accurately
informs users about how you use, collect, and share their data. You can learn
more about Microsoft’s data collection and use in the product documentation and
the Microsoft Privacy Statement at
<https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=521839>. You agree to comply with all
applicable provisions of the Microsoft Privacy Statement.

**Processing of Personal Data.** To the extent Microsoft is a processor or
subprocessor of personal data in connection with the software, Microsoft makes
the commitments in the European Union General Data Protection Regulation Terms
of the Online Services Terms to all customers effective May 25, 2018, at
<https://go.microsoft.com/?linkid=9840733>.
