---
title: Supplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Dynamics 365 Online Previews
author: Keika2
---

**Supplemental Terms of Use for**  
**Microsoft Dynamics 365 Online Previews**

Last updated: April 2018

Microsoft may include preview, beta, or other pre-release features or services
to obtain customer feedback ("Previews"). Previews are made available to you on
the condition that you agree to these terms of use, which supplement your Online
Services Terms governing your use of Microsoft Dynamics 365 Online or Dynamics
CRM Online. If these terms of use conflict with the Online Services Terms
governing your use of Microsoft Dynamics 365 Online or Dynamics CRM Online,
these Supplemental Terms of Use will govern.

PREVIEWS ARE PROVIDED "AS-IS," "WITH ALL FAULTS," AND "AS AVAILABLE," AND ARE
EXCLUDED FROM THE SLAS AND LIMITED WARRANTY described in the Online Services
Terms and materials referenced therein. Previews may not be covered by customer
support. Previews are subject to reduced or different security, compliance and
privacy commitments. We may change or discontinue Previews at any time without
notice. We may also choose not to make a Preview service generally commercially
available. Customer should not use Previews to process Personal Data or other
data that is subject to heightened compliance requirements.

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary provided for in the Online Services
Terms or the Microsoft Privacy Statement, this Preview is not offered subject to
the Data Processing Terms of the Online Services Terms. Previews are also not
subject to any references or statements made on the Microsoft Trust Center.
Customer Data provided to Microsoft through Customerâ€™s use of Previews may be
transferred, stored, and processed in the United States, or in any other country
where Microsoft or its subcontractors operate.
