ce/customer-service/customer-service-analytics-insights-csh.md, before:

---
title: Customer Service dashboards | Microsoft Docs
description: Learn about the various dashboards and reports for historical operational metrics and KPIs to manage contact centers.
ms.date: 02/01/2023
ms.topic: overview
author: lalexms
ms.author: laalexan
manager: shujoshi
search.audienceType: 
  - admin
  - customizer
  - enduser
search.app: 
  - D365CE
  - D365CS
ms.custom: 
  - dyn365-customerservice
  - intro-internal
feedback_product_url: https //experience.dynamics.com/ideas/categories/list/?category=a7f4a807-de3b-eb11-a813-000d3a579c38&forum=b68e50a6-88d9-e811-a96b-000d3a1be7ad
---

# Customer Service dashboards

The insights dashboards for Customer Service contain various charts and metrics to help you understand the factors that can improve customer service for your organization. Key performance indicators and visual breakdowns of your organization's support cases are coupled with AI-generated insights on cases and topics that contribute to overall trends.

The Customer Service dashboards give you a performance summary and detailed reports on cases, agents, and topics.

## Configure dashboards

To enable the dashboards, see the following topics:

- [Configure historical analytics reports](configure-cs-historical-analytics-csh.md)

## Customer Service historical analytics reports

The following dashboard reports are available for Customer Service historical analytics:

### Summary

The Summary dashboard gives you a broad overview of the customer service experience in your organization. It uses AI technology to show you topics that are generating the highest volume and emerging topics with the highest rate of change in volume.

   > [!div class=mx-imgBorder]
   > ![Analytics Summary dashboard.](media/customer-service-summary-dashboard.png "Customer Service analytics Summary dashboard")

More information: [Summary dashboard](summary-dashboard-cs.md)

### Agent

The Agent dashboard shows charts and KPIs for individual agents and overall agent performance. 

   > [!div class=mx-imgBorder]
   > ![Analytics Agent dashboard.](media/customer-service-analytics-agent-dashboard.png "Customer Service Analytics Agent dashboard") 

More information: [Agent dashboard](agent-dashboard-cs.md)

### Case Topics

The Case Topics dashboard shows a detailed breakdown of cases and their assigned topics.

   > [!div class=mx-imgBorder]
   > ![Analytics Topics dashboard.](media/customer-service-analytics-topics-dashboard.png "Customer Service Analytics Topics dashboard")

More information: [Topics dashboard](case-topics-dashboard-cs.md)

## Information that you need to know about the analytics reports

### About this report

About this report is a link that you can select to view the corresponding documentation.

### Reports refresh, data retention

The reports refresh shows the following information.

- **Data refresh:** Occurs every 24 hours. The reports are available during the refresh process. The **Last updated** timestamp in the report pages indicates when the latest data was included in the report, and the time reflects the time zone that's set in your user preferences. 
- **Custom refresh:** Isn't available.
- **Data refresh for inactive environments:** Data refresh is paused if the reports aren't used continuously for two weeks. When you access a report after a lengthy period of inactivity, the report will be refreshed in the next refresh cycle.
- **Data retention:** Data is stored for 24 months.

### Supported tables

The following tables are used for Customer Service historical analytics:

- incident
- incidentresolution
- appmodule
- organization
- msfp_surveyresponse
- msfp_question
- msfp_questionresponse
- msdyn_casetopic
- msdyn_casetopic_incident
- msdyn_casetopicsetting
- Queue
- QueueItem
- Subject
- SystemUser

> [!NOTE]
> A report might be blank if you've customized any of the listed entities or are using out-of-the-box entities.

## Troubleshoot issues when accessing reports

To troubleshoot issues when you try to access or view the reports, do the following.

|   Error message    |            Action         |
|-------------------------|------------------------|
| Oops! No reports were found in CRM. You may not have access to these reports. Contact your system administrator.       |   Contact your administrator to get access.     |  
| Oops! Internal service error, contact your system administrator with Error Code: {numeric value}.   |   Contact Microsoft Support and create a support ticket.     | 
|   Oops! There was a problem rendering the report.   |   Refresh the report. If this doesn't work, contact Microsoft Support and create a support ticket.     |  
| Oops! There was a problem rendering the report, try again.   |   Refresh the report. If this doesn't work, contact Microsoft Support and create a support ticket    |

### See also

[Introduction to Customer Service insights](introduction-customer-service-analytics.md)  
[Configure Customer Service insights for Customer Service Hub and Customer Service workspace](configure-customer-service-analytics-insights-csh.md)  
[Manage bookmarks](manage-bookmarks.md)  
[Customize data models of historical analytics reports in Customer Service](model-customize-reports.md)  
[Tracked keywords in Dynamics 365 Sales](../sales/dynamics365-sales-insights-app-home-page.md#tracked-keywords)  


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

Updated related topics for Bookmarks

ce/customer-service/customer-service-analytics-insights-csh.md, after:

---
title: Customer Service dashboards | Microsoft Docs
description: Learn about the various dashboards and reports for historical operational metrics and KPIs to manage contact centers.
ms.date: 03/30/2023
ms.topic: overview
author: lalexms
ms.author: laalexan
manager: shujoshi
search.audienceType: 
  - admin
  - customizer
  - enduser
search.app: 
  - D365CE
  - D365CS
ms.custom: 
  - dyn365-customerservice
  - intro-internal
feedback_product_url: https //experience.dynamics.com/ideas/categories/list/?category=a7f4a807-de3b-eb11-a813-000d3a579c38&forum=b68e50a6-88d9-e811-a96b-000d3a1be7ad
---

# Customer Service dashboards

The insights dashboards for Customer Service contain various charts and metrics to help you understand the factors that can improve customer service for your organization. Key performance indicators and visual breakdowns of your organization's support cases are coupled with AI-generated insights on cases and topics that contribute to overall trends.

The Customer Service dashboards give you a performance summary and detailed reports on cases, agents, and topics.

## Configure dashboards

To enable the dashboards, see the following topics:

- [Configure historical analytics reports](configure-cs-historical-analytics-csh.md)

## Customer Service historical analytics reports

The following dashboard reports are available for Customer Service historical analytics:

### Summary

The Summary dashboard gives you a broad overview of the customer service experience in your organization. It uses AI technology to show you topics that are generating the highest volume and emerging topics with the highest rate of change in volume.

   > [!div class=mx-imgBorder]
   > ![Analytics Summary dashboard.](media/customer-service-summary-dashboard.png "Customer Service analytics Summary dashboard")

More information: [Summary dashboard](summary-dashboard-cs.md)

### Agent

The Agent dashboard shows charts and KPIs for individual agents and overall agent performance. 

   > [!div class=mx-imgBorder]
   > ![Analytics Agent dashboard.](media/customer-service-analytics-agent-dashboard.png "Customer Service Analytics Agent dashboard") 

More information: [Agent dashboard](agent-dashboard-cs.md)

### Case Topics

The Case Topics dashboard shows a detailed breakdown of cases and their assigned topics.

   > [!div class=mx-imgBorder]
   > ![Analytics Topics dashboard.](media/customer-service-analytics-topics-dashboard.png "Customer Service Analytics Topics dashboard")

More information: [Topics dashboard](case-topics-dashboard-cs.md)

## Information that you need to know about the analytics reports

### About this report

About this report is a link that you can select to view the corresponding documentation.

### Reports refresh, data retention

The reports refresh shows the following information.

- **Data refresh:** Occurs every 24 hours. The reports are available during the refresh process. The **Last updated** timestamp in the report pages indicates when the latest data was included in the report, and the time reflects the time zone that's set in your user preferences. 
- **Custom refresh:** Isn't available.
- **Data refresh for inactive environments:** Data refresh is paused if the reports aren't used continuously for two weeks. When you access a report after a lengthy period of inactivity, the report will be refreshed in the next refresh cycle.
- **Data retention:** Data is stored for 24 months.

### Supported tables

The following tables are used for Customer Service historical analytics:

- incident
- incidentresolution
- appmodule
- organization
- msfp_surveyresponse
- msfp_question
- msfp_questionresponse
- msdyn_casetopic
- msdyn_casetopic_incident
- msdyn_casetopicsetting
- Queue
- QueueItem
- Subject
- SystemUser

> [!NOTE]
> A report might be blank if you've customized any of the listed entities or are using out-of-the-box entities.

## Customize reports

### Save report views using bookmarks

You can also save personalized views of your reports as bookmarks and then use the **Bookmarks** option to select a saved view, update, or delete a bookmark, and set a default bookmark. More information: [Manage report bookmarks](manage-bookmarks.md)

### Edit visual display

You can use the **Edit report** option to customize the visual display of reports. For example, modify the visual look of the data, such as to display a metric trend over time versus a tabular view. You can also create visuals using metrics in the data model that aren't directly exposed in the out-of-box reports. More information: [Customize visual display of historical analytics reports in Customer Service](customize-reports.md#customize-visual-display-of-historical-analytics-reports-in-customer-service)

## Troubleshoot issues when accessing reports

To troubleshoot issues when you try to access or view the reports, do the following.

|   Error message    |            Action         |
|-------------------------|------------------------|
| Oops! No reports were found in CRM. You may not have access to these reports. Contact your system administrator.       |   Contact your administrator to get access.     |  
| Oops! Internal service error, contact your system administrator with Error Code: {numeric value}.   |   Contact Microsoft Support and create a support ticket.     | 
|   Oops! There was a problem rendering the report.   |   Refresh the report. If this doesn't work, contact Microsoft Support and create a support ticket.     |  
| Oops! There was a problem rendering the report, try again.   |   Refresh the report. If this doesn't work, contact Microsoft Support and create a support ticket    |

### See also

[Introduction to Customer Service insights](introduction-customer-service-analytics.md)  
[Configure Customer Service insights for Customer Service Hub and Customer Service workspace](configure-customer-service-analytics-insights-csh.md)  
[Manage bookmarks](manage-bookmarks.md)  
[Customize data models of historical analytics reports in Customer Service](model-customize-reports.md)  
[Tracked keywords in Dynamics 365 Sales](../sales/dynamics365-sales-insights-app-home-page.md#tracked-keywords)  


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
