ce/customer-service/dashboards-ka.md, before:

---
title: Knowledge article analytics
description: Monitor and analyze the status of knowledge articles using the dashboards. 
author: Soumyasd27
ms.author: sdas
ms.reviewer: shujoshi
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 01/23/2023
ms.custom: bap-template
---

# Knowledge article analytics

Tracking knowledge article analytics helps you assess the value your articles provide to your customers. Knowing and understanding when, where, and how many times an article was viewed, tells you how much your customers rely on the information that it contains. This data is extremely useful when creating future content curation plans and can help you decide what content you will deliver in the future, as well as how you deliver it, where you deploy it, and what style or structure you use to write it.  
  
## Analytics for knowledge articles in Customer Service Hub

You can track the various details of your article in Customer Service Hub. The **Analytics** and the **Summary** tab display the statistics that help you understand how helpful your article is in resolving customer queries.

### Analytics tab

To view an article’s view counts and other statistics, open the article you want to track, and then select the **Analytics** tab.  
  
- **Views**. Shows you the total number of times this article has been viewed. It also shows individual article views on specific days. You can select the column headers to sort by chronological order or by the number of views.

- **Feedback**. Captures all the feedback and ratings on the knowledge articles and updates the articles accordingly. If your articles are published on a portal, customers and users can provide their feedback and also give ratings on an article. The Feedback sub grid shows all feedback received for the current knowledge article.  

   The **Rating** field calculates the average rating of the article based on the amount of feedback and number of ratings received.  
   
   > [!NOTE]
   > Rating and view count numbers are rollup fields that are not updated instantly. For more details, see [Define rollup fields](../customerengagement/on-premises/customize/define-rollup-fields.md).

- **Cases**. Shows a list of the cases that have used this article. Double-click a case to view its details.  
  
     By reviewing cases that have used your articles, you can gain valuable insights into the questions that customers are asking, as well as what avenues they tried before asking for help. This data can help you promote your knowledge articles better and provide more useful information to your customers and team members.

### Summary tab

Use the **Summary** tab to view and edit basic details of the article. In the **Summary** tab, you can:

- View or edit **Basic settings** for the article. These include details like Language, Article Public Number, and more.
- View or edit **Publish settings** for the article.
- See the **Timeline**. Add notes or view what you have missed.
- View related information about the article in the **Related Information** section. These include related versions, translations, categories, articles, and products.

## Dashboards for knowledge articles in Customer Service Hub

Knowledge managers and authors can now monitor the status of knowledge articles using the two default dashboards available in Customer Service Hub.

> [!NOTE]
>  If these dashboards don’t offer what you need, you can create new interactive dashboards. [!INCLUDE[proc_more_information](../includes/proc-more-information.md)] [Configure interactive experience dashboards](/previous-versions/dynamicscrm-2016/administering-dynamics-365/mt622067(v=crm.8))  

### My Knowledge Dashboard

This dashboard is designed to give authors a visual snapshot of the number and status of knowledge articles they’re working on. It helps them quickly know things like articles expiring in the month and articles in review.  
  
 ![My Knowledge Dashboard for authors.](../customer-service/media/v9-my-knowledge-dashboard.PNG "My Knowledge Dashboard for authors")  
  
-   **Streams** show data from views or queues. In the My Knowledge Dashboard, the stream shows the active articles assigned to the author.  
  
-   **Charts** provide a count of relevant records in the streams, such as articles by status, articles by owner, or articles by subject. They also act as visual filters. You can drill down in a chart to see data that interests you the most.  
  
-   **Tiles** give authors an aggregated view of data in the streams and help them monitor the volume of their knowledge articles.

### Knowledge Manager

This dashboard is designed specifically for knowledge managers. As a knowledge manager, you can quickly view the most popular articles, articles that need review, highest-rated articles, or articles that are about to expire, and take necessary actions on the articles from here.  
  
 ![Dashboard for knowledge managers.](../customer-service/media/v9-knowledge-manager-dashboard.PNG "Dashboard for knowledge managers")  
  
 [!INCLUDE[proc_more_information](../includes/proc-more-information.md)] [Use interactive dashboards to effectively manage service cases](customer-service-hub-user-guide-dashboard.md)

#### Manage versions in alternate keys for knowledge article entity

If you're creating an alternate key for a Knowledge article entity, include the major or minor version in the key to maintain uniqueness. Also, if you're using translations, include the language code along with the version in the key to ensure a seamless translation experience. For more information about alternate keys, go to [Define alternate keys for an entity](../customerengagement/on-premises/developer/define-alternate-keys-entity.md).

## Knowledge article analytics in Customer Service workspace

The **Knowledge analytics** dashboard consists of the **Article insights** and **Search term insights** dashboards and is meant for knowledge authors and supervisors. Supervisors can use these insights to improve their knowledge management base.

## Next steps

For more information on knowledge management analytics in Customer Service workspace, go to [Introduction to knowledge analytics](knowledge-search-analytics-cs.md#introduction-to-knowledge-analytics).

Commit message:

Category: Content-Updates Work item: https://dynamicscrm.visualstudio.com/OneCRM/_workitems/edit/3481641/ Description: Knowledge Article Views are shown as one day earlier for Brazil timezone (UTC-3)

ce/customer-service/dashboards-ka.md, after:

---
title: Knowledge article analytics
description: Monitor and analyze the status of knowledge articles using the dashboards. 
author: Soumyasd27
ms.author: sdas
ms.reviewer: shujoshi
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 07/11/2023
ms.custom: bap-template
---

# Knowledge article analytics

Tracking knowledge article analytics helps you assess the value your articles provide to your customers. Knowing and understanding when, where, and how many times an article was viewed, tells you how much your customers rely on the information that it contains. This data is extremely useful when creating future content curation plans and can help you decide what content you will deliver in the future, as well as how you deliver it, where you deploy it, and what style or structure you use to write it.  
  
## Analytics for knowledge articles in Customer Service Hub

You can track the various details of your article in Customer Service Hub. The **Analytics** and the **Summary** tab display the statistics that help you understand how helpful your article is in resolving customer queries.

### Analytics tab

To view an article’s view counts and other related statistics, open the article you want to track, and then select the **Analytics** tab.  
  
- **Views**: Shows you the total number of times the article has been viewed. The **View by day and location** section shows the article views on a particular day. The data that you see is the Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) time zone. You'll need to calculate your local time zone based on UTC. For example, 23rd Jun, 9:00 AM UTC time zone translates to 23rd Jun, 6:00 AM Brazil (UTC-3) time zone.

    The total number of views remains constant. You can select the **Day**, **Knowledge Article Views**, and **Location** column headers to sort the data.

- **Feedback**: Captures all the feedback and ratings on the knowledge articles and updates the articles accordingly. If your articles are published on a portal, customers and users can provide their feedback and also give ratings on an article. The Feedback sub grid shows all feedback received for the current knowledge article.  

   The **Rating** field calculates the average rating of the article based on the amount of feedback and number of ratings received.  
   
   > [!NOTE]
   > Rating and view count numbers are rollup fields that are not updated instantly. For more details, see [Define rollup fields](../customerengagement/on-premises/customize/define-rollup-fields.md).

- **Cases**: Shows a list of the cases that have used this article. Double-click a case to view its details.  
  
     By reviewing cases that have used your articles, you can gain valuable insights into the questions that customers are asking, as well as what avenues they tried before asking for help. This data can help you promote your knowledge articles better and provide more useful information to your customers and team members.

### Summary tab

Use the **Summary** tab to view and edit basic details of the article. In the **Summary** tab, you can:

- View or edit **Basic settings** for the article. These include details like Language, Article Public Number, and more.
- View or edit **Publish settings** for the article.
- See the **Timeline**. Add notes or view what you have missed.
- View related information about the article in the **Related Information** section. These include related versions, translations, categories, articles, and products.

## Dashboards for knowledge articles in Customer Service Hub

Knowledge managers and authors can now monitor the status of knowledge articles using the two default dashboards available in Customer Service Hub.

> [!NOTE]
>  If these dashboards don’t offer what you need, you can create new interactive dashboards. [!INCLUDE[proc_more_information](../includes/proc-more-information.md)] [Configure interactive experience dashboards](/previous-versions/dynamicscrm-2016/administering-dynamics-365/mt622067(v=crm.8))  

### My Knowledge Dashboard

This dashboard is designed to give authors a visual snapshot of the number and status of knowledge articles they’re working on. It helps them quickly know things like articles expiring in the month and articles in review.  
  
 ![My Knowledge Dashboard for authors.](../customer-service/media/v9-my-knowledge-dashboard.PNG "My Knowledge Dashboard for authors")  
  
-   **Streams** show data from views or queues. In the My Knowledge Dashboard, the stream shows the active articles assigned to the author.  
  
-   **Charts** provide a count of relevant records in the streams, such as articles by status, articles by owner, or articles by subject. They also act as visual filters. You can drill down in a chart to see data that interests you the most.  
  
-   **Tiles** give authors an aggregated view of data in the streams and help them monitor the volume of their knowledge articles.

### Knowledge Manager

This dashboard is designed specifically for knowledge managers. As a knowledge manager, you can quickly view the most popular articles, articles that need review, highest-rated articles, or articles that are about to expire, and take necessary actions on the articles from here.  
  
 ![Dashboard for knowledge managers.](../customer-service/media/v9-knowledge-manager-dashboard.PNG "Dashboard for knowledge managers")  
  
 [!INCLUDE[proc_more_information](../includes/proc-more-information.md)] [Use interactive dashboards to effectively manage service cases](customer-service-hub-user-guide-dashboard.md)

#### Manage versions in alternate keys for knowledge article entity

If you're creating an alternate key for a Knowledge article entity, include the major or minor version in the key to maintain uniqueness. Also, if you're using translations, include the language code along with the version in the key to ensure a seamless translation experience. For more information about alternate keys, go to [Define alternate keys for an entity](../customerengagement/on-premises/developer/define-alternate-keys-entity.md).

## Knowledge article analytics in Customer Service workspace

The **Knowledge analytics** dashboard consists of the **Article insights** and **Search term insights** dashboards and is meant for knowledge authors and supervisors. Supervisors can use these insights to improve their knowledge management base.

## Next steps

For more information on knowledge management analytics in Customer Service workspace, go to [Introduction to knowledge analytics](knowledge-search-analytics-cs.md#introduction-to-knowledge-analytics).
