ce/customer-service/enable-entities-for-queues.md, before:

---
title: Enable entities for queues | MicrosoftDocs
description: Learn how you can enable entities for queues so that they can be routed through unified routing.
ms.date: 07/21/2022
ms.topic: article
author: neeranelli
ms.author: nenellim
---

# Enable entities for queues in unified routing

Any record that you want to enable for routing needs to be enabled for queues.

## Enable an entity for queues<a name="enable-entities"> </a>

1. Sign in to the Dynamics 365 instance.

2. Select **Settings** > **Customizations** > **Customize the System**.

3. Expand **Entities** below **Components**.

4. Select a record from the solution pane.

5. Select the Queues checkbox under **Communication & Collaboration** section. 

6. Select **Save**.

7. Select **Publish**.

> [!Note]
>
>- If you enable an entity for a queue, you can't disable it. The app disables the **Queues** checkbox after you select it.
>- If you enable the option - **Automatically move records to the owner's default queue when a record is created or assigned**, in the entity customization, then the record won't be automatically distributed to the agents. You must clear the checkbox to automatically distribute the records. <br><br> ![Automatic record movement to the agent's default queue.](media/route-owner-queue.png "Automatic record movement to the agent's default queue")

### See also

[Set up record routing](set-up-record-routing.md)  
[Set up unified routing for email records](configure-routing-for-email-records.md)

Commit message:

Category: Bug fix Work item: https://dev.azure.com/dynamicscrm/OneCRM/_workitems/edit/3488738?src=WorkItemMention&src-action=artifact_link Description: Updated the steps as per Power app portal and updated the image.

ce/customer-service/enable-entities-for-queues.md, after:

---
title: Enable tables for queues | MicrosoftDocs
description: Learn how you can enable tables for queues so that they can be routed through unified routing.
ms.date: 07/20/2023
ms.topic: article
author: neeranelli
ms.author: nenellim
---

# Enable tables for queues in unified routing

Any record that you want to enable for routing needs to be enabled for queues.

## Enable a table for queues<a name="enable-entities"> </a>

1. Sign in to [Power Apps](https://make.powerapps.com/).

2. Go to the default solution.

3. Select **Tables** from site map, and select a table like **Account**, **Email**  from the list which you want enable queues.

4. In the **Table properties** section, select **Properties**.

5. Select **Advanced options**, scroll down to **Rows in this table** section and select **Can be added to a queue** checkbox.

6. Select **Save**.

> [!NOTE]
>
>- If you enable a table for a queue, you can't disable it. The app disables the **Can be added to a queue** checkbox after you select it.
>- If you enable the option - **When the rows are created or assigned, move them to the owner's default queue**, in the table customization, then the record won't be automatically distributed to the agents. You must clear the checkbox to automatically distribute the records. <br><br> ![Automatic record movement to the agent's default queue.](media/route-owner-queue.png "Automatic record movement to the agent's default queue")

### See also

[Set up record routing](set-up-record-routing.md)  
[Set up unified routing for email records](configure-routing-for-email-records.md)
