ce/customer-service/enable-sla-recalculation.md, before:

---
title: Recalculate SLAs in terminal status in Dynamics 365 Customer Service
description: Learn how to configure recalculation of SLAs that reach the terminal status in Dynamics 365 Customer Service.
ms.date: 05/08/2023
ms.topic: how-to
author: neeranelli
ms.author: nenellim
ms.reviewer: shujoshi
search.audienceType: 
  - admin
  - customizer
  - enduser
ms.custom: 
  - bap-template
  - dyn365-customerservice
ms.collection: get-started
---

# Recalculate SLAs in terminal status

By default, SLAs in the succeeded and noncompliant terminal statuses aren't reevaluated, when the success condition changes, can't be paused, or resumed.

However, you can recalculate such SLAs when the applicable when and success criteria of the target entity changes, by enabling the recalculate SLA setting in the **Service Configuration Settings** view.

## Enable recalculation of SLAs on reaching terminal status

You can enable the recalculation of SLAs that reach the terminal status in the Customer Service admin center or Customer Service Hub app.

1. Go to one of the apps, and perform the following steps.

   ### [Customer Service admin center](#tab/customerserviceadmincenter)

    1. In the site map, select **Service Terms** in **Operations**.
    1. In the **Other SLA Settings** section, select **Manage**.
        The **Service Configuration Settings** view is displayed.

   ### [Customer Service Hub](#tab/customerservicehub)

    1. In the site map, Go to **Service Management**.
    1. From the list of entity records, select **Service Configuration Settings** in **Service Terms**.

        The **Service Configuration Settings** view is displayed.

2. In **Recalculate SLA on terminal status**, switch the toggle to **Yes**, and select **Save**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/sla-recalculate.png" alt-text="Enable recalculate SLA on reaching terminal status.":::

### See also

[Define service-level agreements](define-service-level-agreements.md)  
[Apply SLAs](apply-slas.md#apply-slas) 
[Enable records for SLA](enable-entities-service-level-agreements.md)

Commit message:

Category: Content-Updates Work item: https://dynamicscrm.visualstudio.com/OneCRM/_workitems/edit/3437507 Description: Documentation for fFront door task: Recalculate SLAs

ce/customer-service/enable-sla-recalculation.md, after:

---
title: Recalculate SLAs in terminal status in Dynamics 365 Customer Service
description: Learn how to configure recalculation of SLAs that reach the terminal status in Dynamics 365 Customer Service.
ms.date: 08/22/2023
ms.topic: how-to
author: neeranelli
ms.author: nenellim
ms.reviewer: shujoshi
search.audienceType: 
  - admin
  - customizer
  - enduser
ms.custom: 
  - bap-template
  - dyn365-customerservice
ms.collection: get-started
---

# Recalculate SLAs in terminal status

SLAs in terminal status will be recalculated in the following scenarios:

- If the SLA KPI Instance is in expired state, and its applicable when or success condition changes, SLAs get recalculated if the recalculate flag is on.
- SLA KPI Instances in succeeded or canceled terminal states continue to remain in the same state irrespective of changes to the applicable from or applicable when conditions, if the recalculate sla option is set to No. Changes will occur  only if the recalculate sla option is set to Yes.
- When a SLA KPI Instance is in expired state, and changes are made to its applicable SLA item, then SLAs are recalculated. A new slakpiinstance is created and its status depends on the failure time. Failure time is calculated from the applicable from field. If the SLA KPI Instance has passed the specified failure time, it creates a new slakpiinstance in expired state.
- By default, SLAs in the succeeded and noncompliant terminal statuses aren't reevaluated, when the success condition changes, can't be paused, or resumed. However, you can recalculate such SLAs when the applicable when and success criteria of the target entity changes, by enabling the recalculate SLA setting in the **Service Configuration Settings** view.

## Enable recalculation of SLAs on reaching terminal status

You can enable the recalculation of SLAs that reach the terminal status in the Customer Service admin center or Customer Service Hub app.

1. Go to one of the apps, and perform the following steps.

   ### [Customer Service admin center](#tab/customerserviceadmincenter)

    1. In the site map, select **Service Terms** in **Operations**.
    1. In the **Other SLA Settings** section, select **Manage**.
        The **Service Configuration Settings** view is displayed.

   ### [Customer Service Hub](#tab/customerservicehub)

    1. In the site map, Go to **Service Management**.
    1. From the list of entity records, select **Service Configuration Settings** in **Service Terms**.

        The **Service Configuration Settings** view is displayed.

2. In **Recalculate SLA on terminal status**, switch the toggle to **Yes**, and select **Save**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/sla-recalculate.png" alt-text="Enable recalculate SLA on reaching terminal status.":::



### See also

[Define service-level agreements](define-service-level-agreements.md)  
[Apply SLAs](apply-slas.md#apply-slas) 
[Enable records for SLA](enable-entities-service-level-agreements.md)
