ce/customer-service/oc-search-link-unlink-record.md, before:

---
title: "Search, link, and unlink records in Omnichannel for Customer Service | MicrosoftDocs"
description: "Learn how to search, link, and unlink records in Omnichannel for Customer Service. Also learn how to link records to conversations."
author: neeranelli
ms.author: nenellim
ms.date: 11/18/2021
ms.topic: article

---

# Search, link, and unlink a record in Omnichannel for Customer Service

[!INCLUDE[cc-use-with-omnichannel](../includes/cc-use-with-omnichannel.md)]

The topic explains how to search for records, link a record to a conversation, and unlink the record from the conversation in Omnichannel for Customer Service.

You can search for records in two ways:

- Inline search
- Relevance search

## Search for records by using the inline search option

When you accept an incoming conversation request and there's no customer record identified in Omnichannel for Customer Service, use the inline search option in the customer (**Contact** or **Account**) section and **Case** section to search for a contact or account and case, respectively. Inline search is based on the Lookup View and Quick Find View. You can search the fields (attributes) that are included in the Lookup View and Quick Find View fields.

For the customer (**Contact** or **Account**) section, you can search for a Contact or Account record. By default, you can search by using the following fields.

|Record |Fields|
|----------|----------|
|Account| <ul> <li>Account Name</li> <li>Account Number</li> <li>Email</li> <li>Main Phone</li> </ul>  |
|Contact| <ul> <li>Company Name </li> <li>Email</li> <li>First Name</li> <li>Last Name</li> <li>Middle Name</li> <li>Full Name</li> <li>Mobile Phone</li> </ul>|


For the **Case** section, you can search for a Case (Incident) record. By default, you can search by using the following fields.

|Record |Fields|
|--- |--- |
|Case| <ul> <li>Case Number</li> <li>Case Title</li> </ul>|

Only active views are displayed for the search results. You can customize the Quick Find View and Lookup View to change the searchable fields based on your business requirements. More information: [Understand views](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/customize/create-edit-views) and [Unified Interface Lookup view leverages Quick Find View](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/crm/2018/11/02/unified-interface-lookup-now-leverages-quick-find-view/)

## Link a record to the conversation when doing an inline search

> [!div class=mx-imgBorder]
> ![Customer and Case sections are blank when there are no records.](media/customer-summary-create-record.PNG "Customer and Case sections are blank when there are no records")

During an inline search, the search results are displayed and you can select a record to link the conversation to the selected record. After you link the record, the **Active Conversation** page is updated with the details.

   :::image type="content" source="media/agent-inline-search-link.png" alt-text="The active conversation page is updated with details from the linked record" :::

> [!NOTE]
> You can link only one contact or account in the customer (**Contact** or **Account**) section and one case in the **Case** section.

## Search for records by using relevance search

You can also search for records by using the relevance search option. When you select the search icon, the search page opens in the application tab. Specify the details for your search, and then select the search icon. The results appear in a list.

You can search for a case, account, contact, and associated fields as enabled by your administrator.

1. Select **Search** ![Relevance Search icon.](media/oceh-oc-search-icon.png "Relevance Search icon"). The **Relevance Search** tab opens.  

2. In the search box, specify the entity or attribute details based on your search requirements, and then select **Search** ![Relevance Search icon.](media/oceh-oc-search-icon.png "Relevance Search icon").

![Search for a case record by using relevance search.](media/oceh-oc-search-record-case.png "Search for a case record by using relevance search")

## Link a record to the conversation when doing relevance search

After you search for a record by using relevance search, you can link the record to the conversation from the communication panel.

> [!Note]
> You can link only one record to a conversation.

1. Select the record from the list of search results. The record opens in the application tab.

2. Select **More options** in the communication panel, and then select **Link to conversation**.

> [!div class=mx-imgBorder]
> ![Select a record to link.](media/oceh-oc-select-record-link.png "Select a record to link")

Now, the **Active Conversation** page is refreshed and updated with details from the record. Similarly, you can link other record types.

> [!NOTE]
> You can link only one contact or account in the customer (**Contact** or **Account**) section and one case in the **Case** section.

## Unlink a record from the conversation

You can unlink a record only when you are interacting with a customer by using the communication panel. That is, after you accept an incoming conversation request and view the **Active Conversation** page, you can unlink the record from the conversation.

 :::image type="content" source="media/oceh-oc-unlink-customer.png" alt-text="default Case details section of the active conversation page"::: 


To unlink a record, select **Close** next to the customer name in the customer (**Contact** or **Account**) section. After the record is removed, the customer (**Contact** or **Account**) section is blank.

> [!div class=mx-imgBorder]
> ![Blank customer section after unlinking the record.](media/oceh-oc-unlinked-form.PNG "Blank customer section after unlinking the record")

> [!Note]
> You can link and unlink only one contact or account in the customer (**Contact** or **Account**) section and one case in the **Case** section.

### See also

- [Understand conversation states](oc-conversation-state.md)
- [View customer information on Active Conversation form](oc-customer-summary.md)
- [View conversation and session activity types in the model-driven apps](oc-view-activity-types.md)
- [View active conversations for an incoming conversation request](oc-view-customer-summary-incoming-conversation-request.md)
- [Create a record](oc-create-record.md)


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

Category: Content update Workitem: https://dynamicscrm.visualstudio.com/OneCRM/_workitems/edit/3405115 Description: Clarified the behavior of linked case when conversation is closed.

ce/customer-service/oc-search-link-unlink-record.md, after:

---
title: Search, link, and unlink records in Omnichannel for Customer Service
description: Learn how to search, link, and unlink records in Omnichannel for Customer Service. Also learn how to link records to conversations.
author: neeranelli
ms.author: nenellim
ms.reviewer: shujoshi
ms.date: 06/08/2023
ms.topic: how-to
ms.custom: bap-template

---

# Search, link, and unlink a record in Omnichannel for Customer Service

[!INCLUDE[cc-use-with-omnichannel](../includes/cc-use-with-omnichannel.md)]

The topic explains how to search for records, link a record to a conversation, and unlink the record from the conversation in Omnichannel for Customer Service.

You can search for records in two ways:

- Inline search
- Relevance search

## Search for records by using the inline search option

When you accept an incoming conversation request and there's no customer record identified in Omnichannel for Customer Service, use the inline search option in the customer (**Contact** or **Account**) section and **Case** section to search for a contact or account and case, respectively. Inline search is based on the Lookup View and Quick Find View. You can search the fields (attributes) that are included in the Lookup View and Quick Find View fields.

For the customer (**Contact** or **Account**) section, you can search for a Contact or Account record. By default, you can search by using the following fields.

|Record |Fields|
|----------|----------|
|Account| <ul> <li>Account Name</li> <li>Account Number</li> <li>Email</li> <li>Main Phone</li> </ul>  |
|Contact| <ul> <li>Company Name </li> <li>Email</li> <li>First Name</li> <li>Last Name</li> <li>Middle Name</li> <li>Full Name</li> <li>Mobile Phone</li> </ul>|

For the **Case** section, you can search for a Case (Incident) record. By default, you can search by using the following fields.

|Record |Fields|
|--- |--- |
|Case| <ul> <li>Case Number</li> <li>Case Title</li> </ul>|

Active views only are displayed for the search results. You can customize the Quick Find View and Lookup View to change the searchable fields based on your business requirements. More information: [Understand views](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/customize/create-edit-views) and [Unified Interface Lookup view leverages Quick Find View](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/crm/2018/11/02/unified-interface-lookup-now-leverages-quick-find-view/)

## Link a record to the conversation when doing an inline search

> [!div class=mx-imgBorder]
> ![Customer and Case sections are blank when there are no records.](media/customer-summary-create-record.PNG "Customer and Case sections are blank when there are no records")

During an inline search, the search results are displayed and you can select a record to link the conversation to the selected record. After you link the record, the **Active Conversation** page is updated with the details.

   :::image type="content" source="media/agent-inline-search-link.png" alt-text="The active conversation page is updated with details from the linked record" :::

You can link one contact or account only in the customer (**Contact** or **Account**) section and one case in the **Case** section.

If you close a linked conversation, the case won't be closed automatically.

## Search for records by using relevance search

You can also search for records by using the relevance search option. When you select the search icon, the search page opens in the application tab. Specify the details for your search, and then select the search icon. The results appear in a list.

You can search for a case, account, contact, and associated fields as enabled by your administrator.

1. Select **Search** ![Relevance Search icon.](media/oceh-oc-search-icon.png "Relevance Search icon"). The **Relevance Search** tab opens.  

2. In the search box, specify the entity or attribute details based on your search requirements, and then select **Search** ![Relevance Search icon.](media/oceh-oc-search-icon.png "Relevance Search icon").

![Search for a case record by using relevance search.](media/oceh-oc-search-record-case.png "Search for a case record by using relevance search")

## Link a record to the conversation when doing relevance search

After you search for a record by using relevance search, you can link the record to the conversation from the communication panel.

> [!NOTE]
> You can link one record only to a conversation.

1. Select the record from the list of search results. The record opens in the application tab.

2. Select **More options** in the communication panel, and then select **Link to conversation**.

> [!div class=mx-imgBorder]
> ![Select a record to link.](media/oceh-oc-select-record-link.png "Select a record to link")

Now, the **Active Conversation** page is refreshed and updated with details from the record. Similarly, you can link other record types.

> [!NOTE]
> You can link only one contact or account in the customer (**Contact** or **Account**) section and one case in the **Case** section.

## Unlink a record from the conversation

You can unlink a record only when you are interacting with a customer by using the communication panel. That is, after you accept an incoming conversation request and view the **Active Conversation** page, you can unlink the record from the conversation.

 :::image type="content" source="media/oceh-oc-unlink-customer.png" alt-text="default Case details section of the active conversation page"::: 


To unlink a record, select **Close** next to the customer name in the customer (**Contact** or **Account**) section. After the record is removed, the customer (**Contact** or **Account**) section is blank.

> [!div class=mx-imgBorder]
> ![Blank customer section after unlinking the record.](media/oceh-oc-unlinked-form.PNG "Blank customer section after unlinking the record")

> [!NOTE]
> You can link and unlink one contact or account only in the customer (**Contact** or **Account**) section and one case in the **Case** section.

### See also

- [Understand conversation states](oc-conversation-state.md)
- [View customer information on Active Conversation form](oc-customer-summary.md)
- [View conversation and session activity types in the model-driven apps](oc-view-activity-types.md)
- [View active conversations for an incoming conversation request](oc-view-customer-summary-incoming-conversation-request.md)
- [Create a record](oc-create-record.md)


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
