ce/customer-service/submit-feedback.md, before:

---
title: Submit feedback about knowledge articles in Dynamics 365 Customer Service | Microsoft Docs
description: Learn how you can submit feedback about knowledge articles in Dynamics 365 Customer Service.
ms.date: 08/25/2022
ms.topic: article
author: Soumyasd27
ms.author: sdas
search.audienceType: 
  - admin
  - customizer
  - enduser
ms.custom: 
  - dyn365-customerservice
---

# Submit ratings and feedback for knowledge articles

You can easily provide feedback on knowledge articles with the help of knowledge article rating. Knowledge article rating lets you provide feedback on knowledge articles within the context of case resolution. Knowledge managers can capture and review the feedback on the articles to improve and maintain a healthy knowledge base.

When you are working on a case and refer to an article from the **Knowledge** tab, you'll be presented with an option to rate whether the article is helpful and provides relevant information to assist customers quickly. If you think it’s not helpful, you can rate the article accordingly and provide comments on how it can be improved.

> [!NOTE]
> - Ensure that the knowledge article entity is enabled for feedback. To learn more, see [Enable an entity for feedback/ratings](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/customize/enable-entity-feedback).
> - Customer service agents and customer service managers can create, or view feedbacks based on their role and privileges on feedback entity. Out of the box, customer service agents can create, view, or edit their own feedback only. Customer service managers or knowledge managers can view feedback submitted by all agents.

1. Open an article from search results to read it.

2. You can rate a knowledge article and submit feedback. 

    You can provide your feedback on the article, whether it is helpful or not, by selecting the **Thumbs up** or **Thumbs down** button.    

    ![Provide feedback.](media/ka-rating-feedback-thubms-up-down.png "Provide feedback")

    If the article is not helpful, you can also provide your comments in the comment box on how the article can be improved. The comment box is displayed when you select **Thumbs down**.

    ![Provide comments.](media/ka-rating-feedback-provide-comments.png "Provide comments")

To set up the feedback control, see [Set up knowledge management](set-up-knowledge-management-embedded-knowledge-search.md#set-up-knowledge-management).

### See also

[Search knowledge articles](search-knowledge-articles-csh.md#search-knowledge-articles)

[Create and manage knowledge articles](customer-service-hub-user-guide-knowledge-article.md)
 
[Understand knowledge base search mechanisms](knowledge-base-search-methods.md)  


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

Category: Content-Updates Work item: https://dynamicscrm.visualstudio.com/OneCRM/_workitems/edit/3004533/ Description: Update information about ratings and feedback

ce/customer-service/submit-feedback.md, after:

---
title: Submit feedback about knowledge articles in Dynamics 365 Customer Service | Microsoft Docs
description: Learn how you can submit feedback about knowledge articles in Dynamics 365 Customer Service.
ms.date: 06/20/2023
ms.topic: article
author: Soumyasd27
ms.author: sdas
search.audienceType: 
  - admin
  - customizer
  - enduser
ms.custom: 
  - dyn365-customerservice
---

# Submit ratings and feedback for knowledge articles

You can easily provide feedback on knowledge articles with the help of knowledge article rating. Knowledge article rating lets you provide feedback on knowledge articles within the context of case resolution. Knowledge managers can capture and review the feedback on the articles to improve and maintain a healthy knowledge base.

The like for an article indicates the normalized rating for an article. The normalized rating helps to normalize or even out the specified rating value for different rating ranges (minimum and maximum rating values). The value can be between 0 to 1, for example, 0.5 or 0.3. The normalized rating is calculated as follows: (Rating - Minimum Rating) / (Maximum Rating - Minimum Rating). More information: [Feedback](/power-apps/maker/data-platform/configure-entity-feedback#about-the-feedback-table-form)

When you are working on a case and refer to an article from the **Knowledge** tab, you'll be presented with an option to rate whether the article is helpful and provides relevant information to assist customers quickly. If you think it’s not helpful, you can rate the article accordingly and provide comments on how it can be improved.

> [!NOTE]
> - Ensure that the knowledge article entity is enabled for feedback. To learn more, see [Enable an entity for feedback/ratings](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/customize/enable-entity-feedback).
> - Customer service agents and customer service managers can create, or view feedbacks based on their role and privileges on feedback entity. Out of the box, customer service agents can create, view, or edit their own feedback only. Customer service managers or knowledge managers can view feedback submitted by all agents.

1. Open an article from search results to read it.

2. You can rate a knowledge article and submit feedback. 

    You can provide your feedback on the article, whether it is helpful or not, by selecting the **Thumbs up** or **Thumbs down** button.    

    ![Provide feedback.](media/ka-rating-feedback-thubms-up-down.png "Provide feedback")

    If the article is not helpful, you can also provide your comments in the comment box on how the article can be improved. The comment box is displayed when you select **Thumbs down**.

    ![Provide comments.](media/ka-rating-feedback-provide-comments.png "Provide comments")

To set up the feedback control, see [Set up knowledge management](set-up-knowledge-management-embedded-knowledge-search.md#set-up-knowledge-management).

### See also

[Search knowledge articles](search-knowledge-articles-csh.md#search-knowledge-articles)

[Create and manage knowledge articles](customer-service-hub-user-guide-knowledge-article.md)
 
[Understand knowledge base search mechanisms](knowledge-base-search-methods.md)  


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
