ce/customer-service/unified-routing-diagnostics.md, before:

---
title: View diagnostics for unified routing (Dynamics 365 Customer Service) | MicrosoftDocs
description: Learn how to set up routing diagnostics and understand the different stages of routing work items.
ms.date: 01/02/2023
ms.topic: article
author: neeranelli
ms.author: nenellim
search.audienceType: 
  - admin
  - enduser
ms.custom: 
  - dyn365-customerservice
---

# View diagnostics for unified routing

Unified routing helps you assign a work item to the best suited agent or queue to handle it, based on the agent skills and the entities that are related to the work item. Routing diagnostics gives a granular view of each of the routed records to help you understand and diagnose issues that occur in the classification and assignment of work items.

The diagnostics data is stored in Microsoft Dataverse and this data can affect the storage capacity. The data for routed records might consume more space in comparison to other types of work items. More information: [Manage routing diagnostics data](manage-routing-diagnostics-data.md)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Your supervisors can access the routing diagnostics for records and conversations that are handled through unified routing. However, if you don’t want them to view or select the links on a diagnostic record or conversation, or view rules and other configurations, ensure that you assign read-only permissions on the roles such as the Omnichannel supervisor or any other custom roles that you use for managing access in your organization.

## Manage routing diagnostics

To see data related to work items and their status, you need to enable routing diagnostics. The diagnostics setting can take up to 15 minutes to take effect after you enable it.

1. In Dynamics 365, go to one of the apps, and perform the following steps.

   ### [Customer Service admin center](#tab/customerserviceadmincenter)

    1. In the site map, select **Routing**. The **Routing** page appears.
    2. Select **Manage** for **Routing diagnostics**.

   ### [Omnichannel admin center](#tab/omnichanneladmincenter)

    - In the site map, select **Diagnostics** in **Advanced settings**.

   ### [Customer Service Hub](#tab/customerservicehub)

    - Go to the **Service Management** site map, and in **Unified Routing** select **Diagnostics**.

1. On the **Routing diagnostics** page, select **Turn on routing diagnostics**.

1. In the confirmation message that appears, select **Yes**.

   You'll see that a list of new work items starts to appear. However, the work items may not appear on your screen immediately.

1. To disable diagnostics, select **Turn off diagnostics**.

## Understand routing stages and diagnostics

The **Routing diagnostics** page displays a list of work items with details and the stage each work item is in. A brief description of the attributes is as follows:

- **Work item**: The name of the work item. Work items can be searched and sorted by selecting the dropdown next to the work item column.
- **Routing status**: The stage the work item is in.
- **Routing started on**: The date and time when the routing began.
- **Routing duration**: The duration for which the work item has been in its current stage.
- **Work stream**: The name of the workstream that the work item was assigned to.
- **Queue**: The name of the queue that the work item was routed to.
- **Routed agent**: The agent to whom the work item was assigned.
- **Rule hit policy**: Depending on the stage, displays the rule information, such as first match or run all, that helps you understand how the rules were processed in the stage.

## Routing diagnostics flow

Each work item needs to pass through a set of stages before its routing stage can be assigned as completed. You can create multiple workstreams and assign work items based on their severity and priority. The diagnostics flow displays information based on the flow each work item goes through.

Intake ➡ Classification ➡ Route to queue ➡ Assignment

> [!NOTE]
> If a work item skips a stage in the flow, the stage is depicted as disabled.

### Summary

You can select a work item on the **Routing diagnostics** page to view the detailed information, such as when the work item was created, its current stage, and the duration of each stage. You can also select and open the work item to see the associated case. If the work item isn't assigned or no rule item meets the criteria of the work item, error messages are displayed. You can select any of the stages to see further details and diagnose the issues.

:::image type="content" source="media/routing-diagnostics-summary.png" alt-text="Summary view of a routed work item.":::

### Intake

> [!NOTE]
> The intake stage is applicable for record routing only.

When a work item comes in, it goes to the first workstream in the Intake table, and is checked for whether it meets the conditions of the rule set. The work item moves to the second workstream and checks for a match with that rule set, and so on. When a work item matches the rule set, the work item is run. You can create multiple workstreams to handle work items based on their priority. This is called the **Intake** stage of the workflow.

After a work item passes the **Intake** stage, it's then classified through several rule sets and rule items.

A work item passes through three stages.

- **Processed** : Work item has passed through a rule set but didn't match with the rule set and is therefore not run.
- **Matched**: Applicable to route-to-queue rules only; displays with a green check mark if the rule condition is true.
- **Applied** : Work item has passed through a rule set and matched with the conditions of the rule set.
- **Not processed**: Work item didn't pass through a rule set.

### Classification

If a work item doesn't run through a particular rule set in the **Classification rulesets** list, the **Run status** check mark is displayed in red. When the work item runs a particular rule set, the **Run status** check mark is displayed in green. A work item runs all rule sets, but it doesn't run all rule items within the rule set.

If machine learning-based skills identification, effort estimation (preview), or a sentiment prediction (preview) model is used, the details of the model that's used are displayed in the **Classification** section.

:::image type="content" source="media/routing-diagnostics-classification.png" alt-text="View of classification ruleset and machine learning model.":::

### Route to queue

Queue routing rules are formulated to send the work item to the correct queue. More information: [Configure route-to-queues rules](configure-route-to-queue-rules.md)

The queue name to which the work item is routed is displayed on the route to queue page.

:::image type="content" source="media/routing-diagnostics-selected-queue.png" alt-text="Queue to which work item is assigned.":::

If no queue matches the requirement, the work item is assigned to the default queue.

### Assignment

Each work item is assigned to an agent or is sent to a queue based on the **Assignment** rule set. Assignment rule sets contain conditions for which work items need to be assigned to agents. In routing diagnostics, the assignment stage helps understand how the assignment of the work item was handled, such as how the prioritization was done and what assignment selection criteria was applied.

The following stages are available:

- **Prioritization**: Lists the prioritization rule that was applied if any. Work items are routed according to their priority. More information: [Configure assignment methods and rules for queues](configure-assignment-rules.md)
- **Assignment selection**: Displays information about the conditions that determined in selecting an agent. If more than one assignment rule set exists, selection criteria defines the order in which the rule sets are to be evaluated. The assignment selection criteria determines the rule set that has the closest match and the rule that should be run out of the many rules.
- **Assignment ruleset**: Displays information about the rule sets that were processed.
- **Agent assignment trace**: Provides details about the assignment criteria and assignment trace:

  - **Assignment criteria**:
    - **Preferred agent**: Displays whether the setting is enabled or disabled. (This feature is in preview.)
    - **Assignment method**: Displays "Highest", "Round robin", or "custom".
    - **Capacity**: Displays the capacity information.
    - **Presence**: Displays the presence used.
    - **Skills**: Displays the skills that were matched if any.
  - **Assignment trace**:
    - **Current status**: Displays the status of the work item, such as whether an agent has been identified.
    - **Status reason**: Displays the associated reason of the status.
    - **Assigned to**: Displays the agent to whom the work item is assigned if any.
    - **Total attempts**: Displays the number of attempts that were required to assign the agent if any.
    - **Last attempt at**: Displays the date and time of the last attempt for assigning the work item was made.

  > [!NOTE]
  >
  > - The **Assignment Criteria** section in **Agent assignment trace** displays details only if the highest capacity or round robin assignment method has been used.
  > - When assignment failure occurs for a work item, **Status reason** will display the assignment reason for the first three attempts. If the assignment continues to fail, the assignment failure message will be updated hourly. In such cases, the value that's displayed for **Total attempts** might not be refreshed accurately.

    :::image type="content" source="media/agent-assignment-trace.png" alt-text="Information about assignment trace.":::

### Known issues

For known issues in diagnostics, see [Known issues in Customer Service](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2165393).

### See also

[Overview of skill based routing](overview-skill-work-distribution.md)  
[Assignment methods for Queues](assignment-methods.md)  
[Create and manage routing rules](routing-rules.md)  
[Routing and assignment rules](routing-workstream-queues.md)  
[Historical analytics for unified routing in Customer Service](cs-historical-analytics-unified-routing.md)  
[Historical analytics for unified routing in Omnichannel for Customer Service](oc-historical-analytics-unified-routing.md)  
[Configure work classification rules](configure-work-classification.md)  
[Configure routing to preferred agents](configure-preferred-agent.md)

Commit message:

Category: Content Improvement Workitem: https://dev.azure.com/dynamicscrm/OneCRM/_workitems/edit/3072975/ Description: Defined what is diagnostic work item and updated agent assignment trace image

ce/customer-service/unified-routing-diagnostics.md, after:

---
title: View diagnostics for unified routing (Dynamics 365 Customer Service) | MicrosoftDocs
description: Learn how to set up routing diagnostics and understand the different stages of routing work items.
ms.date: 01/02/2023
ms.topic: article
author: neeranelli
ms.author: nenellim
search.audienceType: 
  - admin
  - enduser
ms.custom: 
  - dyn365-customerservice
---

# View diagnostics for unified routing

Unified routing helps you assign a work item to the best suited agent or queue to handle it, based on the agent skills and the entities that are related to the work item. Routing diagnostics gives a granular view of each of the routed records to help you understand and diagnose issues that occur in the classification and assignment of work items.

The diagnostics data is stored in Microsoft Dataverse and this data can affect the storage capacity. The data for routed records might consume more space in comparison to other types of work items. More information: [Manage routing diagnostics data](manage-routing-diagnostics-data.md)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Your supervisors can access the routing diagnostics for records and conversations that are handled through unified routing. However, if you don’t want them to view or select the links on a diagnostic record or conversation, or view rules and other configurations, ensure that you assign read-only permissions on the roles such as the Omnichannel supervisor or any other custom roles that you use for managing access in your organization.

## Manage routing diagnostics

To see data related to work items and their status, you need to enable routing diagnostics. The diagnostics setting can take up to 15 minutes to take effect after you enable it.

1. In Dynamics 365, go to one of the apps, and perform the following steps.

   ### [Customer Service admin center](#tab/customerserviceadmincenter)

    1. In the site map, select **Routing**. The **Routing** page appears.
    2. Select **Manage** for **Routing diagnostics**.

   ### [Omnichannel admin center](#tab/omnichanneladmincenter)

    - In the site map, select **Diagnostics** in **Advanced settings**.

   ### [Customer Service Hub](#tab/customerservicehub)

    - Go to the **Service Management** site map, and in **Unified Routing** select **Diagnostics**.

1. On the **Routing diagnostics** page, select **Turn on routing diagnostics**.

1. In the confirmation message that appears, select **Yes**.

   You'll see that a list of new work items starts to appear. However, the work items may not appear on your screen immediately.

1. To disable diagnostics, select **Turn off diagnostics**.

## Understand routing stages and diagnostics

Diagnostic work item is a record which is created to log and display the details of each event related to a specific work item that passes through various routing stages before assignment. The **Routing diagnostics** page displays a list of work items with details and the stage each work item is in. A brief description of the attributes is as follows:

- **Work item**: The name of the work item. Work items can be searched and sorted by selecting the dropdown next to the work item column.
- **Routing status**: The stage the work item is in.
- **Routing started on**: The date and time when the routing began.
- **Routing duration**: The duration for which the work item has been in its current stage.
- **Work stream**: The name of the workstream that the work item was assigned to.
- **Queue**: The name of the queue that the work item was routed to.
- **Routed agent**: The agent to whom the work item was assigned.
- **Rule hit policy**: Depending on the stage, displays the rule information, such as first match or run all, that helps you understand how the rules were processed in the stage.

## Routing diagnostics flow

Each work item needs to pass through a set of stages before its routing stage can be assigned as completed. You can create multiple workstreams and assign work items based on their severity and priority. The diagnostics flow displays information based on the flow each work item goes through.

Intake ➡ Classification ➡ Route to queue ➡ Assignment

> [!NOTE]
> If a work item skips a stage in the flow, the stage is depicted as disabled.

### Summary

You can select a work item on the **Routing diagnostics** page to view the detailed information, such as when the work item was created, its current stage, and the duration of each stage. You can also select and open the work item to see the associated case. If the work item isn't assigned or no rule item meets the criteria of the work item, error messages are displayed. You can select any of the stages to see further details and diagnose the issues.

:::image type="content" source="media/routing-diagnostics-summary.png" alt-text="Summary view of a routed work item.":::

### Intake

> [!NOTE]
> The intake stage is applicable for record routing only.

When a work item comes in, it goes to the first workstream in the Intake table, and is checked for whether it meets the conditions of the rule set. The work item moves to the second workstream and checks for a match with that rule set, and so on. When a work item matches the rule set, the work item is run. You can create multiple workstreams to handle work items based on their priority. This is called the **Intake** stage of the workflow.

After a work item passes the **Intake** stage, it's then classified through several rule sets and rule items.

A work item passes through three stages.

- **Processed** : Work item has passed through a rule set but didn't match with the rule set and is therefore not run.
- **Matched**: Applicable to route-to-queue rules only; displays with a green check mark if the rule condition is true.
- **Applied** : Work item has passed through a rule set and matched with the conditions of the rule set.
- **Not processed**: Work item didn't pass through a rule set.

### Classification

If a work item doesn't run through a particular rule set in the **Classification rulesets** list, the **Run status** check mark is displayed in red. When the work item runs a particular rule set, the **Run status** check mark is displayed in green. A work item runs all rule sets, but it doesn't run all rule items within the rule set.

If machine learning-based skills identification, effort estimation (preview), or a sentiment prediction (preview) model is used, the details of the model that's used are displayed in the **Classification** section.

:::image type="content" source="media/routing-diagnostics-classification.png" alt-text="View of classification ruleset and machine learning model.":::

### Route to queue

Queue routing rules are formulated to send the work item to the correct queue. More information: [Configure route-to-queues rules](configure-route-to-queue-rules.md)

The queue name to which the work item is routed is displayed on the route to queue page.

:::image type="content" source="media/routing-diagnostics-selected-queue.png" alt-text="Queue to which work item is assigned.":::

If no queue matches the requirement, the work item is assigned to the default queue.

### Assignment

Each work item is assigned to an agent or is sent to a queue based on the **Assignment** rule set. Assignment rule sets contain conditions for which work items need to be assigned to agents. In routing diagnostics, the assignment stage helps understand how the assignment of the work item was handled, such as how the prioritization was done and what assignment selection criteria was applied.

The following stages are available:

- **Prioritization**: Lists the prioritization rule that was applied if any. Work items are routed according to their priority. More information: [Configure assignment methods and rules for queues](configure-assignment-rules.md)
- **Assignment selection**: Displays information about the conditions that determined in selecting an agent. If more than one assignment rule set exists, selection criteria defines the order in which the rule sets are to be evaluated. The assignment selection criteria determines the rule set that has the closest match and the rule that should be run out of the many rules.
- **Assignment ruleset**: Displays information about the rule sets that were processed.
- **Agent assignment trace**: Provides details about the assignment criteria and assignment trace:

  - **Assignment criteria**:
    - **Preferred agent**: Displays whether the setting is enabled or disabled. (This feature is in preview.)
    - **Assignment method**: Displays "Highest", "Round robin", or "custom".
    - **Capacity**: Displays the capacity information.
    - **Presence**: Displays the presence used.
    - **Skills**: Displays the skills that were matched if any.
  - **Assignment trace**:
    - **Current status**: Displays the status of the work item, such as whether an agent has been identified.
    - **Status reason**: Displays the associated reason of the status.
    - **Assigned to**: Displays the agent to whom the work item is assigned if any.
    - **Total attempts**: Displays the number of attempts that were required to assign the agent if any.
    - **Last attempt at**: Displays the date and time of the last attempt for assigning the work item was made.

  > [!NOTE]
  >
  > - The **Assignment Criteria** section in **Agent assignment trace** displays details only if the highest capacity or round robin assignment method has been used.
  > - When assignment failure occurs for a work item, **Status reason** will display the assignment reason for the first three attempts. If the assignment continues to fail, the assignment failure message will be updated hourly. In such cases, the value that's displayed for **Total attempts** might not be refreshed accurately.

    :::image type="content" source="media/agent-assignment-trace.png" alt-text="Information about assignment trace.":::

### Known issues

For known issues in diagnostics, see [Known issues in Customer Service](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2165393).

### See also

[Overview of skill based routing](overview-skill-work-distribution.md)  
[Assignment methods for Queues](assignment-methods.md)  
[Create and manage routing rules](routing-rules.md)  
[Routing and assignment rules](routing-workstream-queues.md)  
[Historical analytics for unified routing in Customer Service](cs-historical-analytics-unified-routing.md)  
[Historical analytics for unified routing in Omnichannel for Customer Service](oc-historical-analytics-unified-routing.md)  
[Configure work classification rules](configure-work-classification.md)  
[Configure routing to preferred agents](configure-preferred-agent.md)
