ce/customer-service/voice-channel-outbound-calling.md, before:

---
title: "Set up outbound calling in the voice channel | MicrosoftDocs"
description: "Use this article to understand how you can set up outbound calling for phone numbers in your organization."
ms.date: 10/03/2022
ms.service: dynamics-365-customerservice
ms.topic: article
author: neeranelli
ms.author: nenellim
ms.collection: get-started
---

# Set up outbound calling

[!INCLUDE[cc-use-with-omnichannel](../includes/cc-use-with-omnichannel.md)]

This article describes how you, as an administrator, can set up outbound calling for phone numbers in your organization. After you set up outbound calling, your agents can make calls to customers in the Omnichannel for Customer Service or Customer Service workspace app.

If you don't have any phone numbers provisioned for your business, then see [Acquire a new phone number](voice-channel-manage-phone-numbers.md#acquire-new-phone-numbers) to learn how you can acquire new phone numbers. Phone number calling plans must be provisioned to support making calls to be used for outbound voice.


## Prerequisites

Before you set up outbound voice calls for your business, you must perform the following steps.

1. [Configure one or more phone numbers for outbound calling](#configure-phone-numbers-for-outbound-calling).
1. [Create a voice type queue](voice-channel-inbound-calling.md#create-queues-for-voice-channels) or use an existing voice queue to associate with the outbound profile.
1. [Configure capacity profiles and add users](#configure-capacity-profiles-and-assign-users).
1. [Create outbound profiles](configure-outbound-inbound-profiles.md#create-outbound-profiles)

## Configure phone numbers for outbound calling

To check whether a phone number is enabled for outbound calling, go to **General settings** > **Phone numbers**, and check whether the number has **Make calls** mentioned in the **Calling** column. You can configure the calling plan for a phone number if it is not enabled for outbound calling.

1. In Dynamics 365, go to one of the apps, and perform the following steps.  
   
   ### [Customer Service admin center](#tab/customerserviceadmincenter)
    
    1. In the site map, select **Channels** in **Customer support**. The **Channels** page appears.
    
    1. Select **Manage** for **Phone numbers**.
   
   ### [Omnichannel admin center (deprecated)](#tab/omnichanneladmincenter)
    
    1. In the site map, select **Phone numbers** in **General settings**.
    
    1. In the list of available phone numbers, select a phone number, and then select **Edit**.

1. In the **Edit number** dialog, in the **Calling plans** area, select the **Make calls** option, and then select **Upgrade**.
   Your phone number is now upgraded for outbound calling.

The phone number will now be displayed to your customers when your agents call them.

> [!NOTE]
> Though you can use the same queue for both inbound and outbound calling, we recommend that you create separate queues for inbound and outbound calling. This will help your supervisors monitor and gauge traffic and customer sentiment, specific to outbound calls.

## Configure capacity profiles and assign users

You must create or use existing capacity profiles to define and set the workload of your agents. For your agents to be able to make calls to customers, they must be assigned or added to an outbound capacity profile. If an agent is not assigned to a capacity profile associated with an outbound profile, then outbound calling features won't be available to the agent. So, ensure that after you create or update the capacity profile, you add users to the profile.

For detailed information on how to manage capacity profiles and add users, see [Create and manage capacity profiles](capacity-profiles.md).

For outbound calls, set the capacity profile fields as follows:

- **Work item limit**: Indicates the number of outbound calls an agent can make at a time. If the value is set to 1, it means that the agent can make only one call at a time, and cannot make a second call until the first call is ended. If the value is set to 3, it means that the agent can make 3 outbound calls at a time. 
- **Reset frequency**: Indicates whether the agent can immediately make another call when the current ends or has to wait until end of day. For voice calls, set this field to **Immediate** so that the agent will be able to make another call as soon as the current one has ended.
- **Assignment blocking**: Indicates whether you want to block any incoming calls when the agent is already on a call. Set this value to **Yes**, if you want to ensure the agent does not receive any incoming calls when an outbound call is in progress.

> [!NOTE]
>
> - When you name your capacity profiles, we recommend that you clearly indicate in the capacity **Profile name** field whether they're outbound, inbound, or both, so it's easy for you to assign users or agents to the appropriate profile.
> - Though you can use the same capacity profile for both inbound and outbound calling, we recommend that you create separate profiles because the considerations and settings for outbound calling and inbound calling can differ.
> - If your agents are assigned to receive customer calls only and not assigned to any capacity profile used for outbound calling, call features will not be displayed to the agent.

## Assign personal phone numbers to agents

You can assign personal phone numbers to agents to make outbound calls to customers.

1. In Dynamics 365, go to one of the apps, and perform the following steps.
   
   ### [Customer Service admin center](#tab/customerserviceadmincenter)
   
    1. In the site map, select **Channels** in **Customer support**.
    1. On the **Channels** page, select **Manage** for **Phone numbers**.
   
   ### [Omnichannel admin center (deprecated)](#tab/omnichanneladmincenter)
    
    - In the site map, select **Phone numbers** in **General settings**.

1. On the **Phone numbers** page, select **Setup** in **Ready for setup**, and in the dialog that appears, select **Assign to user**. The **Omnichannel Users** page displays a list of all agents.

1. Select an agent to open the agent details page.

1. Select the **Omnichannel** tab and select a phone number from the **Omnichannel Phone** field.
   The phone number is now assigned exclusively to the agent to call customers.

> [!NOTE]
> You can assign to agents local phone numbers only as personal phone numbers; toll-free numbers can’t be assigned. Personal agent phone number calls always apply the default scoped outbound profile.

### See also

[Overview of the voice channel](voice-channel.md)  
[Manage phone numbers](voice-channel-manage-phone-numbers.md)  
[Configure outbound and inbound profiles](configure-outbound-inbound-profiles.md)  
[Bring your own carrier](voice-channel-bring-your-own-number.md)  
[Set up inbound calling](voice-channel-inbound-calling.md)  

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

Category: Content improvement Workitem: https://dev.azure.com/dynamicscrm/OneCRM/_workitems/edit/3415792/ Description: Added note from inbound calling topic

ce/customer-service/voice-channel-outbound-calling.md, after:

---
title: "Set up outbound calling in the voice channel | MicrosoftDocs"
description: "Use this article to understand how you can set up outbound calling for phone numbers in your organization."
ms.date: 10/03/2022
ms.service: dynamics-365-customerservice
ms.topic: article
author: neeranelli
ms.author: nenellim
ms.collection: get-started
---

# Set up outbound calling

[!INCLUDE[cc-use-with-omnichannel](../includes/cc-use-with-omnichannel.md)]

This article describes how you, as an administrator, can set up outbound calling for phone numbers in your organization. After you set up outbound calling, your agents can make calls to customers in the Omnichannel for Customer Service or Customer Service workspace app.

If you don't have any phone numbers provisioned for your business, then see [Acquire a new phone number](voice-channel-manage-phone-numbers.md#acquire-new-phone-numbers) to learn how you can acquire new phone numbers. Phone number calling plans must be provisioned to support making calls to be used for outbound voice.


## Prerequisites

Before you set up outbound voice calls for your business, you must perform the following steps.

1. [Configure one or more phone numbers for outbound calling](#configure-phone-numbers-for-outbound-calling).
1. [Create a voice type queue](voice-channel-inbound-calling.md#create-queues-for-voice-channels) or use an existing voice queue to associate with the outbound profile.
1. [Configure capacity profiles and add users](#configure-capacity-profiles-and-assign-users).
1. [Create outbound profiles](configure-outbound-inbound-profiles.md#create-outbound-profiles)

## Configure phone numbers for outbound calling

To check whether a phone number is enabled for outbound calling, go to **General settings** > **Phone numbers**, and check whether the number has **Make calls** mentioned in the **Calling** column. You can configure the calling plan for a phone number if it is not enabled for outbound calling.

1. In Dynamics 365, go to one of the apps, and perform the following steps.  
   
   ### [Customer Service admin center](#tab/customerserviceadmincenter)
    
    1. In the site map, select **Channels** in **Customer support**. The **Channels** page appears.
    
    1. Select **Manage** for **Phone numbers**.
   
   ### [Omnichannel admin center (deprecated)](#tab/omnichanneladmincenter)
    
    1. In the site map, select **Phone numbers** in **General settings**.
    
    1. In the list of available phone numbers, select a phone number, and then select **Edit**.

1. In the **Edit number** dialog, in the **Calling plans** area, select the **Make calls** option, and then select **Upgrade**.
   Your phone number is now upgraded for outbound calling.

The phone number will now be displayed to your customers when your agents call them.

> [!NOTE]
> Though you can use the same queue for both inbound and outbound calling, we recommend that you create separate queues for inbound and outbound calling. This will help your supervisors monitor and gauge traffic and customer sentiment, specific to outbound calls.

## Configure capacity profiles and assign users

You must create or use existing capacity profiles to define and set the workload of your agents. For your agents to be able to make calls to customers, they must be assigned or added to an outbound capacity profile. If an agent is not assigned to a capacity profile associated with an outbound profile, then outbound calling features won't be available to the agent. So, ensure that after you create or update the capacity profile, you add users to the profile.

For detailed information on how to manage capacity profiles and add users, see [Create and manage capacity profiles](capacity-profiles.md).

For outbound calls, set the capacity profile fields as follows:

- **Work item limit**: Indicates the number of outbound calls an agent can make at a time. If the value is set to 1, it means that the agent can make only one call at a time, and cannot make a second call until the first call is ended. If the value is set to 3, it means that the agent can make 3 outbound calls at a time. 
- **Reset frequency**: Indicates whether the agent can immediately make another call when the current ends or has to wait until end of day. For voice calls, set this field to **Immediate** so that the agent will be able to make another call as soon as the current one has ended.
- **Assignment blocking**: Indicates whether you want to block any incoming calls when the agent is already on a call. Set this value to **Yes**, if you want to ensure the agent does not receive any incoming calls when an outbound call is in progress.

> [!NOTE]
>
> - When you name your capacity profiles, we recommend that you clearly indicate in the capacity **Profile name** field whether they're outbound, inbound, or both, so it's easy for you to assign users or agents to the appropriate profile.
> - Though you can use the same capacity profile for both inbound and outbound calling, we recommend that you create separate profiles because the considerations and settings for outbound calling and inbound calling can differ.
> - If your agents are assigned to receive customer calls only and not assigned to any capacity profile used for outbound calling, call features will not be displayed to the agent.

## Assign personal phone numbers to agents

You can assign personal phone numbers to agents to make outbound calls to customers.

1. In Dynamics 365, go to one of the apps, and perform the following steps.
   
   ### [Customer Service admin center](#tab/customerserviceadmincenter)
   
    1. In the site map, select **Channels** in **Customer support**.
    1. On the **Channels** page, select **Manage** for **Phone numbers**.
   
   ### [Omnichannel admin center (deprecated)](#tab/omnichanneladmincenter)
    
    - In the site map, select **Phone numbers** in **General settings**.

1. On the **Phone numbers** page, select **Setup** in **Ready for setup**, and in the dialog that appears, select **Assign to user**. The **Omnichannel Users** page displays a list of all agents.

1. Select an agent to open the agent details page.

1. Select the **Omnichannel** tab and select a phone number from the **Omnichannel Phone** field.
   The phone number is now assigned exclusively to the agent to call customers.

> [!NOTE]
> - You can assign to agents local phone numbers only as personal phone numbers; toll-free numbers can’t be assigned. Personal agent phone number calls always apply the default scoped outbound profile.
> - You can add only those users who are configured for unified routing.
> - After 20 minutes of being added to a queue, agents must refresh their dashboards to be able to make calls.

### See also

[Overview of the voice channel](voice-channel.md)  
[Manage phone numbers](voice-channel-manage-phone-numbers.md)  
[Configure outbound and inbound profiles](configure-outbound-inbound-profiles.md)  
[Bring your own carrier](voice-channel-bring-your-own-number.md)  
[Set up inbound calling](voice-channel-inbound-calling.md)  

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
