ce/customer-service/voice-channel-voicemail.md, before:

---
title: "Configure voicemail to manage inbound calls"
description: "Learn how to configure and use voicemails in the voice channel in Omnichannel for Customer Service."
author: neeranelli
ms.author: nenellim
ms.date: 07/06/2023
ms.topic: article
---

# Configure voicemail to manage inbound calls

Voicemails help your customers leave messages for agents when they come across long wait times or their direct calls to agents are unanswered. You can reduce on-hold calls when customers  communicate their concerns promptly through voicemails and call back later for a status check.

The salient features of voicemail are as follows:

- Voicemails can be recorded for up to five minutes only.
- If you don't want to use the out-of-the-box prompt for the voicemail, you can customize it in the [automated message](configure-automated-message.md#customize-automated-messages-at-the-channel-level) or [workstream settings](voice-channel-inbound-calling.md).
- Voicemails will always be transcribed irrespective of whether you've enabled the voice call transcription. The transcript includes any conversation, such as conversation with the bot that occurs before the voicemail. However, the recording will include voicemail only.
- If the customer is unable to record the voicemail, an automated message is played for the customer that informs the voicemail couldn't be recorded and they should call back again.
- The bot can't offer to take a voicemail. The call must be escalated to an agent. The voicemail will be offered if the agent isn't available.

## Prerequisites for voicemail

The following prerequisites must be met:

- You must be on the latest version of the product to use voicemail.
- Unified routing must be enabled. More information: [Provision unified routing](provision-unified-routing.md)
- To open a voicemail, agent presence must load. More information: [Manage presence status](oc-manage-presence-status.md)

## Configure voicemail to manage overflow of voice calls

You can redirect the caller to record a voicemail for the agent when an incoming call reaches the voice queue and the queue is in one of the following conditions:

- Exceeds a defined number of calls that are waiting in the queue
- Is received during the after hours of the call center operations
- Exceeds the estimated wait time

For information on how to configure the conditions and actions, go to [Manage overflow of work items in queues](manage-overflow.md).

You can also configure overflow override in the route-to-queue rule of a workstream.

Out of the box, **Default Group Voicemail Workstream** is available to route the group voicemails to the default group voicemail queue.

You can configure routing rules to route voicemail that your customer has recorded on your organization's phone number. In the rule condition, select **Organization phone number** in **Work classification** or **Create Intake rule** and add the required phone number to route the voicemail. When you define the intake or classification conditions, specify the following:
- The phone number with the country code, if you select **Equals** operator.
- The phone number without the country code, if you select **Contains** operator.

## Use voicemail to manage direct calls to agents

If a direct call to an agent is missed and voicemail is configured, the option to record a voicemail is presented to the customer. The call might not be answered because of one of the following reasons:

- Call rejected by the agent
- Call times out
- Agent presence is set as offline or don't disturb 

Out of the box, **Default Individual Voicemail Workstream** is available to route the individual voicemails to the default individual voicemail queue.

## Configure voicemail views in inbox for agents

1. In Customer Service admin center, in the sitemap, select **Workspaces** under **Agent experience**.

1. Select **Manage** for **Agent experience profiles** and select the profile that you want to edit.

1. Edit the inbox and enable it.

1. Select **Add**.

1. On the **Add a new view** dialog, enter the following details:

     - **Name**: Name for the view.
     - **Agent visibility**: Select Show.
     - **Record type**: Select **Voicemail**.

1. In the **Settings** dropdown list, select one or all of the following:
     - Assigned
     - Unassigned
     - Resolved

More information:

- [Configure the inbox](configure-inbox.md)
- [Create and use agent experience profiles](../app-profile-manager/create-agent-experience-profile.md)

## How voicemail works

The voicemail record is set up for routing out of the box. Voicemails are categorized into individual and group voicemails.

### Individual voicemails

Individual voicemails are triggered through direct inward dialing and are routed to the default individual voicemail workstream.

- The workstream routes the voicemail to the individual voicemail queue.
- By default, the individual voicemail queue has no agents.
- The custom assignment rule assigns the voicemail to an agent based on their direct inward call number.
- The assignment method is round robin.
- You can add all your agents who are configured for direct inward dialing to the individual voicemail queue. The voicemails left for their numbers will be automatically assigned to the agents.

### Group voicemails

If the voicemail is triggered by the overflow condition of a queue, it's routed to the default group voicemail workstream, which is a pick workstream.

- The workstream routes the voicemail to the default group voicemail queue.
- By default, the queue has no agents. Add those agents to the queue who triage voicemails.
- The assignment method is highest capacity.
- Voicemails left for every voice queue will be routed to the group voicemail queue.
- For a more elaborate routing set up for voicemails, configure the required voicemail queues and route-to-queues rules to route to these queues.
- The operating hours at the workstream level will override the queue-level overflow setup. The operating hours message at the workstream level will be played and the system will disconnect the call.

### Manage voicemail capacity

By default, the voicemail workstream capacity is set to zero.

However, if you let voicemails take up capacity, the capacity restriction will apply for group voicemail workstreams of push type only and not the default pick workstreams. In all cases, if an agent is at nil capacity and picks a work item, the work item will still be assigned to them even if all their capacity is consumed.

Because the individual voicemail workstream has a custom assignment rule, capacity isn't taken into account, and voicemails are always pushed to the agent corresponding to the direct inward dialing number.

Supervisors can view the voicemails on the **Omnichannel Ongoing Conversations Dashboard**.

### View the default settings

1. In Customer Service admin center, select **Routing** in the site map, and then select **Manage** for **Setup record routing**. Voicemail is listed under **Record types** on the page that appears.

1. Select **Voicemail**. The **Voicemail routing hub** page displays the following default settings:

   - **Intake rules**: The rules check whether the voicemail is for individual or group and then routes the voicemail accordingly.
       - **Route to Individual Voicemail Workstream**: The rule routes the voicemail to **Default Individual Voicemail Workstream** if the voicemail type is individual.
       - **Route to Group Voicemail Workstream**: The rule routes the voicemail to **Default Group Voicemail Workstream** if the voicemail type is group.
   - **Workstreams**
       - **Default Individual Voicemail Workstream**: Contains the settings to handle individual voicemails.
       - **Default Group Voicemail Workstream**: Contains the settings to handle group voicemails.

### See also

[Overview of voice channel](voice-channel.md)  
[Overview of unified routing](overview-unified-routing.md)  
[Configure routing for the voice channel](voice-channel-route-queues.md)  
[Manage overflow of work items in queues](manage-overflow.md)  
[Manage voicemails](manage-voicemails.md)  
[Configure direct callback](voice-channel-direct-callback.md)  
[Omnichannel Voicemail dashboard](oc-voicemail-dashboard.md)  


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

Category: Content update Workitem: https://dev.azure.com/dynamicscrm/OneCRM/_workitems/edit/3414056 Description: Added note about conditions to avoid for routing voicemails.

ce/customer-service/voice-channel-voicemail.md, after:

---
title: "Configure voicemail to manage inbound calls"
description: "Learn how to configure and use voicemails in the voice channel in Omnichannel for Customer Service."
author: neeranelli
ms.author: nenellim
ms.date: 07/07/2023
ms.topic: article
---

# Configure voicemail to manage inbound calls

Voicemails help your customers record messages for agents when they come across long wait times or their direct calls to agents are unanswered. You can reduce on-hold calls when customers  communicate their concerns promptly through voicemails and call back later for a status check.

The salient features of voicemail are as follows:

- Voicemails can be recorded for up to five minutes only.
- If you don't want to use the out-of-the-box prompt for the voicemail, you can customize it in the [automated message](configure-automated-message.md#customize-automated-messages-at-the-channel-level) or [workstream settings](voice-channel-inbound-calling.md).
- Voicemails will always be transcribed irrespective of whether you've enabled the voice call transcription. The transcript includes any conversation, such as conversation with the bot that occurs before the voicemail. However, the recording will include voicemail only.
- If the customer is unable to record the voicemail, an automated message is played for the customer that informs the voicemail couldn't be recorded and they should call back again.
- The bot can't offer to take a voicemail. The call must be escalated to an agent. The voicemail will be offered if the agent isn't available.

## Prerequisites for voicemail

The following prerequisites must be met:

- You must be on the latest version of the product to use voicemail.
- Unified routing must be enabled. More information: [Provision unified routing](provision-unified-routing.md)
- To open a voicemail, agent presence must load. More information: [Manage presence status](oc-manage-presence-status.md)

## Configure voicemail to manage overflow of voice calls

You can redirect the caller to record a voicemail for the agent when an incoming call reaches the voice queue and the queue is in one of the following conditions:

- Exceeds a defined number of calls that are waiting in the queue
- Is received during the after hours of the call center operations
- Exceeds the estimated wait time

For information on how to configure the conditions and actions, go to [Manage overflow of work items in queues](manage-overflow.md).

You can also configure overflow override in the route-to-queue rule of a workstream.

Out of the box, **Default Group Voicemail Workstream** is available to route the group voicemails to the default group voicemail queue.

You can configure routing rules to route voicemail that your customer has recorded on your organization's phone number. In the rule condition, select **Organization phone number** in **Work classification** or **Create Intake rule** and add the required phone number to route the voicemail. When you define the intake or classification conditions, specify the following:

- The phone number with the country code, if you select the **Equals** operator.
- The phone number without the country code, if you select the **Contains** operator.

> [!NOTE]
> We recommend that you avoid defining rule conditions based on skills or sentiment category for the missed conversation attribute to route voicemails because they won't work as expected.

## Use voicemail to manage direct calls to agents

If a direct call to an agent is missed and voicemail is configured, the option to record a voicemail is presented to the customer. The call might not be answered because of one of the following reasons:

- Call was rejected by the agent
- Call timed out
- Agent presence is set as offline or don't disturb

Out of the box, **Default Individual Voicemail Workstream** is available to route the individual voicemails to the default individual voicemail queue.

## Configure voicemail views in inbox for agents

1. In Customer Service admin center, in the site map, select **Workspaces** under **Agent experience**.

1. Select **Manage** for **Agent experience profiles** and select the profile that you want to edit.

1. Edit the inbox and enable it.

1. Select **Add**.

1. On the **Add a new view** dialog, enter the following details:

     - **Name**: Name for the view.
     - **Agent visibility**: Select Show.
     - **Record type**: Select **Voicemail**.

1. In the **Settings** dropdown list, select one or all of the following:
     - Assigned
     - Unassigned
     - Resolved

More information:

- [Configure the inbox](configure-inbox.md)
- [Create and use agent experience profiles](../app-profile-manager/create-agent-experience-profile.md)

## How voicemail works

The voicemail record is set up for routing out of the box. Voicemails are categorized into individual and group voicemails.

### Individual voicemails

Individual voicemails are triggered through direct inward dialing and are routed to the default individual voicemail workstream.

- The workstream routes the voicemail to the individual voicemail queue.
- By default, the individual voicemail queue has no agents.
- The custom assignment rule assigns the voicemail to an agent based on their direct inward call number.
- The assignment method is round robin.
- You can add all your agents who are configured for direct inward dialing to the individual voicemail queue. The voicemails left for their numbers will be automatically assigned to the agents.

### Group voicemails

If the voicemail is triggered by the overflow condition of a queue, it's routed to the default group voicemail workstream, which is a pick workstream.

- The workstream routes the voicemail to the default group voicemail queue.
- By default, the queue has no agents. Add those agents to the queue who triage voicemails.
- The assignment method is highest capacity.
- Voicemails left for every voice queue will be routed to the group voicemail queue.
- For a more elaborate routing set up for voicemails, configure the required voicemail queues and route-to-queues rules to route to these queues.
- The operating hours at the workstream level will override the queue-level overflow setup. The operating hours message at the workstream level will be played and the system will disconnect the call.

### Manage voicemail capacity

By default, the voicemail workstream capacity is set to zero.

However, if you let voicemails take up capacity, the capacity restriction will apply for group voicemail workstreams of push type only and not the default pick workstreams. In all cases, if an agent is at nil capacity and picks a work item, the work item will still be assigned to them even if all their capacity is consumed.

Because the individual voicemail workstream has a custom assignment rule, capacity isn't taken into account, and voicemails are always pushed to the agent corresponding to the direct inward dialing number.

Supervisors can view the voicemails on the **Omnichannel Ongoing Conversations Dashboard**.

### View the default settings

1. In Customer Service admin center, select **Routing** in the site map, and then select **Manage** for **Setup record routing**. Voicemail is listed under **Record types** on the page that appears.

1. Select **Voicemail**. The **Voicemail routing hub** page displays the following default settings:

   - **Intake rules**: The rules check whether the voicemail is for individual or group and then routes the voicemail accordingly.
       - **Route to Individual Voicemail Workstream**: The rule routes the voicemail to **Default Individual Voicemail Workstream** if the voicemail type is individual.
       - **Route to Group Voicemail Workstream**: The rule routes the voicemail to **Default Group Voicemail Workstream** if the voicemail type is group.
   - **Workstreams**
       - **Default Individual Voicemail Workstream**: Contains the settings to handle individual voicemails.
       - **Default Group Voicemail Workstream**: Contains the settings to handle group voicemails.

### See also

[Overview of voice channel](voice-channel.md)  
[Overview of unified routing](overview-unified-routing.md)  
[Configure routing for the voice channel](voice-channel-route-queues.md)  
[Manage overflow of work items in queues](manage-overflow.md)  
[Manage voicemails](manage-voicemails.md)  
[Configure direct callback](voice-channel-direct-callback.md)  
[Omnichannel Voicemail dashboard](oc-voicemail-dashboard.md)  


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
